Thunder Mountain session two It's It's an exciting day. Come on. I finally
know what's inside the mountain. I didn't know last week. I found out last
night when I made it up. I'm super excited for you guys. You won't find out
what's inside this session, though. Unless you're really surprise me. I don't
know how that would happen. Oh, man. I've got stuff for both of you. I'm so
excited. We're going to Denver.m surprise her best friends of his birthday
birthday next weekend and it's taking Denver single and not to for and be
like, that see you. This is a surprise. I'm so bad this surprises. Adam things
like whatever. And so he's and he's like, you, what should we do Friday when
you come in? Like, is sushi happy hour good? And I'm like, yeah, let's sounds
great. And I just want to text Shannon and be like, I'm so excited. Woooo! me.
All the anticipation will make it all the more exciting when you get there.
It's killing me. She's gonna lose her freaking mind. Yeah. It's a really sweet
thing for you guys to coordinate. Well, she hosted my 30th, planned everything
out for me, pretty much. That's delightful. Yeah.. He's Adam, her husband is
higher in two actors to do a 90s stmed murder mystery after house for her
birthday on Saturday. Holy cow. Yeah. And then I have aama wine party Sunday
night, just four of us ever. Because Shannon and I used to have wine night.
Yeah. college and it would just be getting from the big kk. Like, oh, the
bottles. 1.5 liter bottle.. like we like just stuff. But there was one time in
her apartment that we got we were just having fun. We were just girls being
girls fun. We woke up to what looked like a. It's a disaster. the couch the
carpet Oh, my God... A candle spilled and not on the carpet. I' Gl glad you
guys didn't set fired anything. Yeah. I also climbing into her attic and
scraped my arm and and got skin stuck in her. Oh! That's a lot. Oh, God. Oh,
my goodness. And that's when I learned scrubbing bubbles get lime stains out
of things. Oh, yeah, I remember what I need to look up I need to look up. I
won't be crazy. That's too crazy. You're dirty 30s is rain used to call them..
Thunder Mountain. Oh, and Adam got a bunch of like, swag with her face on it,
so like, his tattoos consetti and balloons. Hey, hey! Hey! Are you kidding?
Who did it? Drop it. This one's yours. This one's yours. I sorry? Did you see
it? I don't know, but they were on the. You? Yeah. You what? No, it's crushed
up treats into the carpet, and I'm gonna get out for real quick. This is
great. Yeah. I don't really like that. Well, I'm not gonna put out there now.
Okay. Boom. Hmm. I seem to have not written Professor Jack's lecture. I might
have to wing it. Oh, my goodness. What the heck? What the heck? Okay, well,
I'm gonna have to. do. Wing it? Yeah. What are we laying? I am gonna be giving
Professor Atabar's lecture off the top of the dome. Sit. Instead of written
out the night before. You got this? I better. It's my character. I made him
for a different game, and it was a game where I wanted to play a character who
wasn't any good in a fight, and the rest of the people in the game didn't like
that. They didn't want somebody just sitting back in the fights. I wanted to
sit back in the fights so I could document them better. Huh? That's what I'm
here for. Like right now with you guys. Yeah. I do what I want, whatever,
whatever.. Yeah, it was too much I think than a few months, so it was a
little. I need to look at. what happened in last... I' looking for. This one
is Yeah. are strong. Oh, good. Are you the H. You try it? Not yet. I.. You.
Hey.. It's pickles. Hi, Ben. Sorry, I got to get those pickles. pickles. Take
a recently all over here and make a little blade if you want. My Where on my
go? No, no. Come in there, p. You're eating so close and itiss issues. Could
be? When they're quiet, they're cool beans. Who could be making a message for
O's probably cat robots? Really? Okay. Let's go. How precious.. Good? What?
I'm not an artist, but that was.. You mentioned wild last time. you? No. Oh,
okay. No, I know about it. I played Ultima Online back in the '90s. Okay. It's
one of its predecessors. Got I never got into EverQuest or never rest as it's
also known. Oh, Everquest, I forgot about that. I worked for Sony for a while
and they gave him a bunch of Ever and he played them. No, those are like AOL
coasters to me. Oh, okay. I played Meridian 59, which was the first 3D, like a
first person. MMO. It didn't farewell. It was the technology was immature. My
friend and I hatched protocol. It wasn't encrypted at all. It was just all in
clear text. And so I fired up a server and put it between his client and their
servers. and intercepted all the traffic, watched it, and then figured out
what to inject to make stuff happen. So while he was in the dungeon, I bought
more apples for him.. And I also set up automation to drop one coin every like
five seconds while he was walking. Yeah. It was just silly stuff. Yeah. His
Apple purchases, he still paid for them. He just didn't have to go back to
town. Yeah. Anyway. Yeah, I can't do that anymore. No. They've learned how to
secure these things. Yeah. I did play City of Heroes, City of Villains with
some friends. back in the day. I didn't really like it. That's like ao Yeah,
and then you can get together with people and have a legion of evil or legion
of good or whatever. I really liked that game when I was like 11. Yeah, that's
who it's for.. And a lot of people who need to express themselves more than
they can in real life, they get a lot of benefit out of it. And I support
that. I just don't need that. It is not for me. My friends in Seattle were
into it because they were into comics and they were into the whole. I want to
say Cibio, but that's not going to make sense.. The ever escalating levels of
power... And story like, action rich, kind of thing. We've still got 12
minutes. We can start early if you guys want. Okay. Yeah. Are we? I'm never
gonna be ready. I'm so terrified. I'm gonna make one very minor change, which
is the AI had written it that each of Jack Atabar, Brightwater, bright letter,
I mean, Bright Letters, Lectures were a separate day. I'm gonna say it's all
the same day. Everybody came in, they got this surprise lecture that lasted
the entire time. Let me look at where his last where he left off last time.
What was the last thing he said? The last thing he said. Rua, absolutely not.
Was Well, maybe I do have a write up here. Oh, yeah, okay, never mind. I do
have a written lecture. But the same day. Cool. Let's see here. I'm trying to
figure out how to make this, uh. hold on a second. So he had just stopped to
take a breath and some people were sneaking into the lecture room because some
of the students were like, "You gotta check this out." And the place is
starting to pack in. Oh, my. Well, welcome. I hope you'll all take good notes.
Where we left off, our intrepid party with our intrepid party, Miss Moon
Whisperer had successfully recruited to Vandelin's most distinctive residence
for her expedition. What I didn't adequately convey last week was.. Sorry,
earlier today. was just how remarkable their first day together would prove to
be. The image on the crystal shifts to show the grass land that you guys went
through. You see, the journey to Cragm Territory should have been utterly
routine. The songbird had come to Fandalin following rumors of magical trumpet
hidden in the Wave Echo Cave, while M. Moon Whisp was pursuing her linguistics
research. Half a day's walk through peaceful grasslands should have meant
nothing more exciting than deciding which wildflowers depress for botanical
notes. Instead, they managed to stumble into what I can only describe as a
cascading series of ecological encounters that would have challenged a party
twice their size. First, wounded boars, victims of the very predator prey
dynamics that were destabilizing the entire Thunder Mountain region. illusion
shows shadowy wolf shapes moving through tall grass. Then wolves, drawn by the
scent of blood and the promise of easy prey. But here's where it gets
interesting, young scholars, rather than simply fighting their way through,
which, given their impressive magical capabilities, they certainly could have
done, the songbird demonstrated the kind of creative thinking that separates
true adventurers from mere cell swords. Professor Bry Brightwater gestures
dramatically, just like you did... Breastidigitation to create the scent of
delicious food, Drawing one wolf away from the other. Then, when a giant
vulture, a creature that should have sent them fleeing in terror, appeared
overhead, he conjured an illusory, dire wolf, so convincing that even I would
have believed it. The culture, took one look at this supposed apex predator
and decided its dinner could wait for easier prey. A student raises her hand.
"Professor, how did they know to work together so effectively if they'd only
just met? Ah, excellent question, Miss Silverquill. That's part of what makes
their adventure so fascinating. Having only just met, Sererafina, small Bean
in the Sobird, worked together as if they'd trained for months. It may be that
Small Bean's military background allowed her to instantly access the
songbird's tactical capabilities and trust him, to hold his portion of any
engagement, or could simply be remarkable luck. Hejusts his spectacles
thoughtfully. It's probably luck. Everybody watching this TV show on their
couches at home eating snacks says, it was luck. Absolutely. I mean, that's
what this is. We're making a TV show here. I recall Serfina speaking at length
upon her return about how those two seemed to fall into perfect
synchronization the moment they met. She described it as uncanny, the way
small beings direct magical approach complemented the songburns more subtle
enchantments, without any need for discussion or planning. Little do they
know. Professor Brightwater Bright letter gestures towards his notes, which
brings us to perhaps the most fascinating part of their first day, their
evening with the Cragmile tribe itself, the crystal shows the image of a
fortified goblin camp with cooking fires. You've all read my treatise on
Crragmmas Society, but witnessing its second handand through Seraphina's notes
truly remarkable. Small bean, and yes, that is still her actual name. Managed
to demonstrate both her magical pess and her understanding of goblin cultural
values in a single casual display of flame magic that had the entire camp
reassessing their assumptions about tiny angry elves. Several students
chuckle. Meanwhile, the songbird not only spoke fluent goblin, a rare skill
among humans, but composed and performed an epic ballad about their recent
battle. In Goblin, Impromptu. The cultural impact cannot be overstated. Here
was a human b treating goblin artistic traditions with the same respect he
would show at a noble's court. Professor Brightletter's expression grows more
serious. But the evening also revealed the weight of their destination. Elder
Thul of the tribe confirmed the rumors about Thunder Mountain. Something
ancient and powerful stirring in the depths, making the very peaks echo with
unnatural sounds. She spoke of a magic anvil of instruments crafted in ages
past, but admitted the cragmire scouts had never ventured close enough to
provide real intelligence about what creatures might be causing the
disturbances. The crystals's image shifts to show mountain paths winding
upward, which brings us to the next morning, when young Tunic, the scholarly
goblin who had been corresponding with Serafina, made a decision that would
change everything, despite the dangers, despite his tribe's well founded
fears, he volunteered to guide them personally to Thunder Mountain. Not only
that, but his reputation among the younger warriors was such that two eager
goblin fighters requested permission to escort the party to the mountain's
base. Professor Bright letter pauses for effect. The journey itself was
treacherous enough, mountain climbing, the constant threat of wildlife, the
need for absolute stealth as they approached the cursed peaks. But when they
finally reached the cave entrance, that local legend claimed led to the wave
Echo cave treasures his voice dropped, barely above a whisper, "Fresh tracks.
Recent disturbances of the Earth, scattered feathers suggesting a violent
struggle and echoing from the depths of the mountain itself a sound that
chilled even through Nick's goblin blood, the distinctive call of something
that should not have been there. The crystal goes dark, a sound that
serapfina's notes describes simply as hoot, growl, though I suspect that
description hardly does justice to what they encountered. For you see, class,
they had stumbled upon evidence of the very ecological warfare affair that was
making Thunder Mountain a place of terror. He looked at his students' rapt
faces. next week, sorry. After the break, we'll examine how a party of six,
three inexperienced adventures, one remarkably brave goblin scholar, and two
eager young goblin warriors face down a creature that most season adventurers
would flee from. We'll discuss the tactical implications of their approach.
The cultural significance of interspecies cooperation under extreme stress,
and, he grins, the unexpected discovery that would change everything they
thought they knew about the mountains ancient secrets. But I'm.. But I'm
getting ahead of myself. Go ahead and take your breaks, and when you come
back, I will commence telling you about all of that. All right.. So that's
what you're about to do. I'm glad to love it. I Yeah. I'm not going to go easy
on you this time. Yay. I'll try and be a little more careful of my choices.
Player character, death. Player character, death is possible. It's not the
point, but it has to be possible in order for the story to really matter in my
opinion. Okay, so I need to set up on the board your situation with the Elbert
that just surprised you all, whereas by ones? Oh, yeah, there are all the.
Well, two more goblins. Oh, they're over here. Perfect town. And they need to
not look like pic. So there's an archer and a mace guy. And I'll let you guys
arrange this stuff after we draw areas that you are. Wait, un so. Pardon? I'm
so excited. Uh, good. Let's the the end. Let's see here. Can't listening b
into shit a little better. is four? Oh, I see. That is not as cute as the dr.
No. It doesn't look his bear like. No. Yeah, I's do what you guys did. They're
not technically supposed to be 10 foot by 10 foot that's all right. So let's
see, where's? You want N? Oh, yeah. That's good. Oh. It's the last place I
would have looked.? Let's see.. You guys came up this way. and I didn't say,
so this whole area is open on this side. Over here is a steep cliff. You came
up over here. Yeah, we like rock climbed, right? Yeah. And this stuff is too
unstable to to to climb back up. If somebody fell that way, it would be that.
And your buddies. What?. This side goes like let's. It looks like it was
trying to remember what creates these kinds of stological structures. I trying
to make everything actually realistic so that it's predictable about you. I
want it to be that this surprises are how realistic it is, not how dumb it is.
But I have to also balance that against, I don't know where it. So unstable
clutch side Yeah, if you walk on these there's a chance that it will.. And if
you push somebody off of there, it will have.. cool not. Out there. You do see
a bit of a cave entrance over here. You went alone and I... I don't think dogs
are gross, so. I'm trying to remember this. I can't wait to tell you guys
where it's Matt G. And then, I can sit this down, like this, and then we'll
worry about the rest later, can't see how that past this thing anyway. This
guy had yeah, swooped in from over here. So this is all open, like out, you
can see down the valley. It's cool. This is all well enough, but you can see
all around here. Does this also cliffery? No, this is sol the wall. Okay. is a
key. Yeah. wall, Whatever. Yeah, okay, so, you, we'll put the dlin in the
front because there's one. I actually tell me that these guys do have names
now. I think. I think the guy with the mace is. Hold on. Silver. Oh, that's
just the right place. The guy with a mace is. owl bear or my God. There are no
joke.. I knew it when I was trying to pick my bills and I I wanted one, but I
didn't do it, and now I wish I did. Oh, my goodness. There's so much notes on
here. But the one I wanted makes a sound so loud that people can hear it like
300 yards away or something. So if I did it, you would like distract Mother
Hurry might call other creatures, so I don't want to do it. That is a
reasonable concern. But it would have shot Where is.. All right, well, I'll
just describe the two, and I'll get their names right in a minute. I'm so
nervous. Good, good. What? I have Yeah, sure. So for these, 80 feet. Okay, so
80 feet is with no penalty. And then. It's when it's. So up to 80 feet, you
have no penalty. Up to 320 feet, you have a penalty I't remember. I think it's
like minus 2 or something. So like when you roll you reduce the roll by some
amount. Oh, because it's so far. And you can't technically can't go beyond 320
because there's just not that much energy you can put into a bow or whatever.
Oh, in your case, it's probably magic. Oh, it's a cross, yeah. It's a good
one. I'm gonna go ahead and put this lady over here. She's just come around
this corner. She looks already agitated. Oh, I need to get the stats or the
end stuff. You she's not running at you or anything like that. You're not even
in initiative right now. Oh, and the names, there we go. So, the one with the
Mason Shield or the Morning star and Shield is Grick. and. G. the one with the
shield. And along the way, he told you that he's one of the goblins that's
been exploring. And his buddy who came along, Lauren, says, at the time,You
never told me that. Why didn't you tell me that? And Grex says, "Don't worry
about it." Um. And, uh, yes, so you c that, you look around, you see the upset
dirt, you see the feathers, and then the elbert comes around the corner and
screeches at you. What would you like to do next? It's screeching at us? Yes,
sounds like it's not. It does. Yeah, I don't know if we need to roll for seven
or whatever. You can you can take a moment to observe it. I'm going to give it
a chance to perceive you guys to., or we can try to. Hmm. You want to roll for
it? For what? So they could, like. No, I was just saying small be, on were
having a conversation quickly, like, do you fight or do we. You have time to
talk. It's just standing back there. Like, you know how like a dog at the edge
of its territory will just bark and bark and bark at you, but not come at you?
Me we could try to sneak into the cave or the whole thing or we can try to
trick it somehow, or we can just straight up. We have a few of us. We can
move. one step towards the cave. And see how it reacts.. Well, you guys are
saying that Gre says, that's a good plan because that way is the easier way
in. Yeah. Maybe we see if if we can even get to the cave quick enough, you
know, if we take a step, is it going to.., let's just walk along the wall.
Whyiet. from the wall. What are you guys to send it home?ever who's the
tankier one is we had a gob with. This one has a shield. But he's the one who
knows the best, so he'll go first. Yeah, he's This one's watching, you
watching that. This one is still mad at that moment.'s back here I guess.
long. G disc screech and you haven't enough time while watching her to watch
her moons and stuff to see that she might be a little bit needed.. Yeah, bear.
Yeah, she's. Okay, but it noon. is what happened last time. That's. was that,
oh, the boar and then animals came out of the zoo.. I'm the zoo. Oh, cool. Uh.
And she doesn't do anything. And he says, God. goes in a little bit to go for.
decides to be brave and got a bow out. Why do perception check for what? Yeah.
I better think about what the answer is. nest of home. Go ahead and roll your
perceptions, and I'll figure out what you get after that. There's basically
four levels of information you can get. Yeah, roll of 20, and then add your
perception score to it. God blessed the one. Really? One on the die? Yeah.,
let me see. You don't have plus 10. Plus 10. eight stuff. Okay 17. There we
go. So. So, small bean looks it takes a moment to look away from the owl bear
and scopes out the ground at the front of the mouth of this thing, and the
walls, and it looks like it may have recently been at least enlarged by an
animal. It's disturbed and like the stone that's exposed is fresh. And uh But
there's no sounds coming from it. There's no notable smells because there's a
big wind going through this area anyway, so you can't really smell any of the
stuff. You probably smell the owl bear now and then when the wind goes that
way. Um. But Greg had said this is the safest way to go in. Okay. And you
don't see anything that looks like. Like if there's any dangers in there, it's
not going to be humanoid made or anything like that. And I'll go ahead and
tell you that also, since you have plenty of time in this, over here, it goes
around and you think there's probably more like that's where the owl bears
are. And there's something else that way. Oh, what did the What did I tell
you? What did Sul tell you the night before about that she'd found out about
the mountain? Did she tell you there were creatures fighting or No. Okay. I
don't think so. Okay. Oh, yeah, she told you that she did think that there was
a forge. That's what it was. A forge? Age, I think so.? Yeah. Yeah, okay.
Yeah, a magic forge. Yeah. That it's real and that I'll say also because it's
canon on the website that three dwarves recently rediscovered the entrance.
But the goblins have been going back and forth, trying to see what's going on
here, because they know if they could figure it out, it would be huge for
them. Um So the goblins are already making their way. Do you guys, what do you
guys want to do? So you say this is injured, you notice it's injured? Yeah,
you'd say it's it has recently been tangling with something. Do we perception
check is see what look like. Yeah, like what would have caused the wound? I'm
gonna look at.. Why are you trying to know You can do what we're about to walk
into. You can do either animal handling or medicine or perception, and the
answer you get will depend on what skill you use.? I remember she doesn't have
an handling. She's got plus one to it. That's pretty good. We have seven.
Seven? Yeah, I' rolled the one on. Yep.. He stacked it all. Yeah, those Which
is smart. You want to have one person in your party who's, oh, I got to get
Sfina's... What's your animal? Well, animal animal handling would probably, if
each one tells us something different, animal animal animal will probably tell
us maybe the type of animal. Yeah, it could do, what that tell us how badly?
Medicine? Yeah, medicineine would tell you about the wounds. if you do well.
Okay. Depending on where it is, I'll decide. That would be too, folks. So, you
look at her, you can tell that still that she has some fresh red on her.
Probably her own blood. Yeah. I don't know You don't know where the whether
she's actually wounded or just got somebody else's blood on her. if she's.
That could also be. Let me see. Her beak does have red on it. And her claws
are reddened.. And that's all you get with that. Yeah, that's all I am. I'll
tell you what the difference will be if you want to. Yeah, you. So animal
handling will tell you what you observe that's different from what you would
expect from a normal owl bear. Okay. And what was the other thing? Perception?
Perception will give you more details, but not the interpretations of them.
Kind like that. My perception's higher, so I'm gonna be perception. All right,
Bef before you tell me the result, you can roll now, but don't tell me the
result yet, because I got to think about what the thresholds are. Okay. Oh,
and thank you for setting up that fan there. Um, let's see. I felt something,
breeze. You to stay? It's fine the way it is. Oh, man, I'm so hot. The ladies
can't keep their hands off me. No, yeah, I just tend to run hot all the time.
I used to think it was because I drank too much, but it's not. Let me see
here. So perception.. Okay, I think I've got the scale ready. Okay. Nine,
total. Okay.. Yeah, cool. You did spend the time. You spent the time trying to
look, but she's not standing still. You can't really. like, pick out any
details very well. You can see the same blood that small bean sees. Yeah. And
you can come to the same sorts of conclusions. But really neither of you is
getting any information and it's because she is like dancing around trying to
look fierce or something.. And she.. let's see, you guys moved forward a
little bit. I think she's gonna move forward just... Just five feet. She's
just, like, stepping forward to see if she. Well, I can't tell you why. But, I
mean, I could, but I'm not gonna. Good question. Hmm. So I know there's
history and that tells you, there's like about events, people, nations
cultures.. What would tell you, like your animal knowledge would that?
Survival. Survival. Yeah, if you want to learn things about animals or about
plants or about nature or if you want to do something with that knowledge, as
survival.? I mean, we can try to get in the cave, but if we have to fight
this, we could. Oh, I have a plus three. Serfina rolled a three on the die for
a perception. I have four, but yeah. So what I'm thinking is if you find out
what Albert's either fear or maybe, if you know that or if you know like, what
they have really good intimid. Well, I know what they f. That might be good.
Well, he can also create allusions. illusion. Or if you know it's kind of
What's the if you know what they like look for when they're injured, like
would they eat certain food? I could just make something look and smell right
next to it, same or 2.0. This is like my only go to. If you walk for survival?
Yes, yes. You can roll any new skill.. Okay. You remember an owl there expert
coming into the Sleepy Giant? And she would not shut up about Albert. She was
just. She was Albert pilled, as the kids would say. But also, you remember
almost everything she talked about, and you remember her talking about how
they combine the traits of bears and owls that they nest, that they guard
their young jealously, that they generally don't, they're not aggressive
unless threatened. And you're observing that here and you're like, oh, okay.
Let's see, what else is special about Albert's compared to other animals? Oh,
I should just look at this page here. make a sound of her Behind her. Yeah.
Yeah, a. We could do that. We can I've got more info, too. Oh, yeah. No, we
should listen to it. Okay. I'll read you this page, because you get to know
all this, really. Created long ago by Misguided Mages, Albert combined keen
avian eyes, thick feathers and a tearing beak with a mighty bear like frame.
Despite their magical origins, Albert's have propagated and spread to
wilderness across the multiverse. Alberts dwell in distinctive dens, and then
it has a table I can roll against to decide what sorts of things are in the
den. I guess I should probably... Nah, I'm just gonna decide off the top of my
head. I already have this whole map figured out anyway. I have. So, from here
to about... here, I have in my head. Going along here and going along there..
We might not get through all of Session two today. If it gets slow, then I'll
speed it up. If not, if you just really enjoy the stuff, then that will make
me super happy. Because next time I'm going to bring technology and that will.
I just need the time to set that up. So, you also know about their physical,
their normal physicality. You know that they're ridiculously strong. They have
tremendous constitution. They can take a lot of hits. They're dumb as a bird.
Wise as an owl. And they're not very impressive. They have a low charisma. So
they're scary, but they don't like make an impression with their scariness.
It's just like it's like going to a zoo. Like, oh, that thing looks like it
could really hurt us. And you also know that they make multiple attacks. They
make to rend attacks, only melee, they don't have any way to get at you if
you're more than five feet away. Oh, no, they have each. Sorry, if you're more
than 10 feet away, they can't get you. Okay. And are they a medium or a large
creature? Oh, they are large. So this base is correct. They take up a 10 by 10
area. So, if she can cover, in fact, she's gonna move over just a little bit,
take advantage of her reach, she can cover from here to here and from here to
here in kind of along the diagnosis. So the 30 attack? Yeah, she can attack
all of those areas and she moved away to the from the wall so that she can
cover more area. Because even though they're dumb, they have experience, they
learn to fight if they have to. Yeah, and they have that wisdom. But also
based on your very high role, congratulations, you feel like you're safe just
sitting here thinking and talking. And you've seen that she's not reacting,
she's not still not getting any closer. She got closer at first, but she saw
that you didn't react. And so she knew that that wasn't she wasn't going to be
able to just scare you off. She has just scared people off before. It's not
working on you, so she's just hanging out, waiting to see what happens.
Spider. Yes, I love that one. I love all the Spider Man memes. What are you
doing? I thought I was Spider Man. Who are you? R. Oh, you know, being excited
about everything ever. So, yeah, you have plenty of time. What's his name?
Shoot. I've already forgotten the name of my golin. is Greck, yes. We've got
Gre, Tic, and Vorn. Thunik is the one you met before who speaks perfect
common. Grex Common is broken, and so he says things like, this way, safe. And
he's kind of like motioning for you to come with him. We can just trust. Let's
just keep moving. All right. He knows, right? He doesn't seem like. She hasn't
come to eat yet, and she would have no trouble in there. something or do years
go? Yeah, we'll start making our way until the act. We'll go and move you guys
around with the barge. Love the wall. Oh, actually put in the air because that
makes for you guys make for a large enough force that I put that that little
guy there. He's going like this. And then closer? Yeah. Well, I mean, these
guys are even them here. they're ready if anything happens Yeah. Also, you can
tell that they're on the verge of shitting themselves. Oh. Because these three
by themselves absolutely would be destroyed by her. And she could come
reasoning after them if she wanted to. But we do have long range attack, so.
I'm thinking if it starts coming at us, I'm gonna make a big illusion of just
like a wall, like a rock wall, so if it's dumb, it's gonna think that it can't
go through the wall. You size is 15 feet? Yeah. So you'd be able to make a
wall like that. And just enough time for us to run in, you. It would buy some
time. I would start in shift with an acting like that. Yeah. Yeah, I agree. Do
you think we should do it, or should we I mean, we're in to do this and then
it's gonna attack. Like there's it's probably going to have. Yeah. So we're
just putting ourselves in. Maybe we should do some things to give us a chance
to get in. Shift the wallet? I would rather do stuff now as opposed to one
we're all condensed here because then. baby. Okay,ry, I' rethink the wall.
Yeah, I like that. Okay. What can you do after? Because I can., what do you
got going on? Is under actions? Spells are. Spell and actions. Special. You've
got all kinds of actions and spells. Let me see. I've got access to your
character sheet.. Hey, what? I'm working here. Bud? He's making the sound of
the owl bear. That's right. Bones is ow. Bones is the owl bear. Wait, I could
do a sleep. Stress him up. Can you do it for creatures? Let's take a look
at... choice Oh, five radius. Let's see what the range is, though, because..
Oh, 60 feet. Okay, so I think you're less than 60 feet away. Let's see. I
don't. we move close 915 So this is 1530 That's 60 feet. Yeah. So you're
close. You could scooch forward enough to be within range, and then let's, let
me see what the spell says. I think youleep and we get like, it literally. It
incapacitates. Yeah.. Must succeed on a wisdom saving throw or have the
incapacitated condition. Hey! She's got plus one on her wisdom saves, I think,
but that's, That doesn't mean. you got to roll. Hey, shut! I would be rolling
again. her spell, DC. En. Walking guarded inspiration you before you do that.
There you go. You got a better shot of Oh, actually, that wouldn't change or
spell DC, no. Oh, But let me check if there, do you have anything to debuff
Albert? No. inspiration only does. I was trying toate. It only for creatures.
Can I use it on members? Um. Well, I could do the magic missile again. That
will definitely piss her off. Yeah. If you want to do that. That's always an
option, but the sleep looks like... Since you have so much time to plan and
observe, I'll give you a.. You can roll ourana to see how likely you think it
is that the owl bear will succumb to the sleep. DC is 12. Okay. So, you don't
know. It's like, oh, it could happen, could not. 50/ 50, I guess. But you,
let's see, with a Narn, you don't even know if it would upset the owl bear
that you tried to do that. I think and this style, if I move forward, enough,
for it to beranged. Yeah. I have a command spell, too. That's the one I just
picked up. I can make it flee or go throne. and that takes up its next turn.
So if we all do something, it has to stay there for that turn, but we can try
the rock and sleep first. Okay.. You know, you want to try sleeping it and
then I'll put up the wall if it goes to sleep, because then if it wakes up,
then it wakes up to the wall.. Like I try to put it to sleep. Yeah, try to
sleep it and then if it comes to us, I'm going to tell it to flee just so we
get space. Okay. That will be my career. I have to take the steps forward
first. Yeah. You won't have to get as far forward as the goblins are. Okay. So
you won't be. Yeah. Go ahead. There you go. Albert doesn't seem to mind that.
You haven't crossed whatever invisible line she's drawing in her head. Um.
Bolves, gentle. Yeah, and now, uh, I guess if you guys are gonna cast spells,
is there any particular timing you want, or do you just want one of you roll
it and or not roll it? cast it and see what happens? Yeah, the thing. Yeah, so
we were like, okay, small being, you try. You try to put it to sleep. And then
if it doesn't work, then if it works, I'll cast the rock right after and if it
doesn't work, then if I get an initiative before the albert, then I can make
it fleet if I beat it in initiative. Okay. So. Do we have to roll initiative
before? Not yet. Your Her casting will, if the Albert doesn't succumb, then
you'll roll initiative. That will be the action that triggers the shit's going
down, let's see, what the actual order of operations is. react or is it like.
Does it have any reactions? Hold on. I don't think it has reactions. No, none
of its actions are reactions. So it's only reaction will just be that it now
wants to attack. Allegedly.. All right. And so the DC for that, you have a
spell DC of 1, and we're doing a wisdom So that means that in order for the
Owbert to withstand your spell, she has to roll 13 or better after adding her
plus one wisdom. You don't roll anything. I'm gonna roll this in front of the
table so you can see. Okay. So she's plus So she gets 12 or better, then she
stays awake. Wow. So five people. She critically succeeds. I'm really glad I
rolled that in front of the table, so you guys could see. Also, I believe it.
I'm really glad that the first role in the front was a 20. Let's see, how does
an ol bear critically succeed at not falling asleep? I think she's slightly
energized by your spell. Oh.. I don't know what mechanical effect is. no more
the rest of the. Um.. She takes. So now we'll go ahead and roll initiative,
because things have started happening. That's just a D20 and add your..
There's a thing on your. You guys just having the worst time at these dice.
Yeah, the worst. Yeah. Where is an issue? Initiative, I don't know what it
looks like on the app, but on here, it's.. Next to Armor Class. Oh, wait. No,
it's not a skill. It's a. Yeah, it should be close to save. Where? So Small
beans initiative is plus one. The songbird's initiative is plus two. Oh, I see
plus two, yeah. I go. And then the owl bear 8 plus 10. Okay. Oh, is very
dated. Yes. What did you do? Okay. I need to roll for the goblins, too. Oh,
what's the stat block for the goblins? I think Does he die? Well, the
goblins's probably in that first, but if it comes to that. Goblin waror. know
what those. What messes up in? wounded Oh, my God. we can see where is like,
where his wound is so we have to target it. It's And tic is.. Something has me
feel like this. Yeah, self. She's just got anxiety, and she's Um, remember?
It's not. Yeah, the parrot... Damn, these goblins are rolling well. And
Saphina is at. Oh, she's got. Now. Okay. All right. Did anybody roll higher
than a 22? Absolutely. The Goblin Warriors is roll 22. Did anybody roll above
a 17? That's.. Yeah, so all three of your goblin companions are gonna get to
go first.. Did anybody roll 16? Okay. That's With your bones? Oh, there. Did
anybody roll Did either of you roll above eight? I got a ten Okay. here. Here
goes for me. And serrapina is at an eight. despite her plus three. Oh, that's.
And. Is there available out, babe. What is that? We don't get it? No, you
better say once. Okay. So the G warriors let's see, do they know that you cast
a spell? I think you guys were talking about it, so they know you were going
to. Yeah. And they saw that the albert seemed to like perk up and she's not
sleepy at all. So they're going to What kind of goblin Warrior do? Here we go.
Um. They are going to. I guessing. No, 30. stay here. This one's go just
there, attain for us buddy this one.. So there' gonna going to prepare an
action to attack if the owl bear comes in closer. Preparing an action thing
anybody can do, you guys can do that and it goes just like what I did. There's
a condition and what you're going to do. The thing you're going to do can be
an action, a move, or b action, just any one of those things that you can do.
And you get one per full round. So they don't get to do another one until
their next turn and they can put another election. So a question for that is,
so it's conditional, so they aren't attacking, but they are saying, we're
going to do this attack if they do that. If Albert does it, they instantly do
what it previously. Correct. Okay. Yeah. Got it. This one couldn't attack from
there anyway because his mail range. Yeah. But if the Albert gets close, then
he automatically gets to attack before the Albert has to do anything he gets.
Wait, okay, I see what you're doing here... is just gonna scch up to here and
also prepare an action to attack. It is the al bear's turn. She is going to So
I can't do anything like because I'm.. You'll get, as soon as Sarah's done
with her turn, you'll get to start your turn in At that point, you could
prepare an action, or you could just do something. Preparing an action is kind
of a delay. There's also the ability to delay one's turn until after somebody
else. You can just kind of give up your priority and just move in the
initiative. But let's see, it is now the owl bear. Where's the Albert tab?
That's weird. I thought I had it up. All right. Albert., monsters, here we go.
Oh, that's.. I read you a different page. What is different? Is it the same
stats? This is so weird. Sorry.. I'm Oh, this is the legacy out there. That's
weird. Why is this coming here? Here. Oh, there. Doop. And then the non legacy
Albert is here. There we go. Oh, and just so you get the flavor. This is what
the they look like in the book. You! Okay. I like that a lot better than the
mini fig. Yeah. Oh, you got a really high role on your Albert thing. The lady
at the bar had talked about having met Tame Albertz. They had been raised from
hatching. and been around people the whole lives and.? Sheriff should heal it.
maybe we, I don't know. That's a great idea. And I'll feed it? She will
absolutely do that. The downside is. tax us. So she's got a main speed of
sound speed. She is since he didn't actually hurt her, she's going to get
close enough to threaten five, 10, 15, 20, 25, thirty forty What the shit?,
except for that one, but she is in, but they are. Yeah. This one is in in
her.. They prepared an attack, though. Right, but she's still more than five
feet away. Okay. So this one can this one can decide, oh, I should check to
see if a spear has reached. I think it's does, but it's still like daylight.
Oh, I wouldn't make it to there anyway. That's 15 it's got a 15 foot spear. So
the archer will now gets to choose whether to execute the action or not. But
the archer heard you suggest to Serafina that she heal the albert and holds
his action. He does not release the arrow. He keeps the arrow knocked and the
bow taut. And he's a pretty good at this stuff, so he can hold that for a long
time. He's not even shaking it. I mean, he is shaking, but not because he's
holding the bow string. And now Sina will try to heal the Albert. This is
going to be... This has got to be the wrong character, you know? Oh, right,
it's an action, not a spell. Do I do my thunderclap? I mean, oh, do I go
before surfing? Uh. Yes, you will be going. I if I delay, can I go after? You
can, yes. You can go on initiative 8 after. Yeah, I'll delay and then my, like
group planning is if her thing works, can I can I roll to see if I know if Al
like music that like calms them at all? That would be. I just want. That would
be survival to find out if what the what people think about that. You would
have to roll animal handling to try it in situ. But you can absolutely hold
your turn until after Sfina. I think it'll hold in. Then you get the extra
information. Yeah.. So now I'm going to change this to eight.. And you and
Serfina can choose whether to go first or second in each successive round.
Okay. That's what happens when you're on the same thing. That's not the way it
is in the book, but I like it better that way. Okay. Right it is like, I
can't. I'm either attacking or I'm not. What if we're.. If everyone's holding
off, then I don I want to get a chance to. I love this. You know. All right.
So, Serafina. I have to look at lay on hands. Yeah. Okay. It is sick. Oh, my
goodness. She has to touch it. You see a moment of hesitation, but she goes
for it.. 10:15. Sorry. Ocean she has to touch it. Yeah. Oh, I can I can pause
it. But if I do go first.. No, 15, 10, 11, I wish sorry. 5, 10, 15, 20. 13.
She walks right up. kneels, puts one hand on the Albert's talent on the ground
there. And there's there's a mild blow in the Alder means heel. And the albert
doesn't attack her. What? I mean, it's not a turn anyway, but it's clearly not
upset by this. It's. It feels better. When heals a person, like the itchiness
and the pain that comes with a wound goes away. They're restored, and they
feel like better, like they feel good. And you gave her good feeling, too,
with your failure to cause her to sleep. And she real she now has had too
good. She's been energized, and she's been healed. Um. I'm gonna go ahead
because this is one of those things. I have an idea of what I'm and a deal.
I'll go ahead and let this go until it'sbert's turn before she actually
reacts. But yes. She looks mollified. You know, I roll to to see if I know
from, or maybe it's from yours. Or I guess from me, if I know about Albert's,
if they if like the smell, do they get along with other owl bears? Or are they
like one-on-one only, like by themselves? They' pack.. They're more like a
pack. Okay. So I'm going to try. It's more like the bird thing where the birds
go in flocks, less like the bear thing where they're independent. Okay. I'm
going to cast the fresh dish. Press the digitation and just smell like o
there. You When you're in the stronger, just say press the digitation over and
over. I'm teasing. smell like an. And I need to... If not friend life, friend
smell. Right?. And then I need to roll. Oh, that is a high insight roll. Okay.
It is now your turn. Songbird. Okay. You're going to make a owlbert friendly
smell on you guys. Is that the? Yes, that was the. And that's a cantrip. They
don't have to spend anything. and let's see, songbird, let me look at the
spell real quick and see if there's any surprises, rest the digation. sensory
effect. Oh, well, yeah, you'll need to do that. But,.. You can move 30, I
think. Five, 15, 20. 25? That 30. Yeah, 30? Uh huh. Okay. plus. 10 feet. Oh,
you're fine then. Okay. So, yeah, all around you for 10 feet.. word is saled
on the. There's no save for that. There's no. Yeah, she just gets the
sensation. She seems to relax a little more. Oh, my God. Small bean, what
would you like to do? down. Fireball. She is She is an angry, tiny elf. You do
It's your chaos. blown out of the water here with whatever the hell you guys
are doing. Your time will come for sure. I. I have as well. Oh, you could make
another sensation if you wanted to. But I would like to I want to know what,
like things out, like, value you. Like who Absolutely. Sure. like trinkets or
like things like something like a snack, perhaps? I'm making this up off the
top of my head. I will absolutely give you that information because of that
19.. If you had rolled a natural 20, I would have told you it's name. That's
That's the difference between almost a critical and a critical is like, with
critical, you get just everything. But yeah, so you know that in amongst
Alberts, there is a... So, you know how with cats, you can do the slow blink
to tell them that you like them and that they're safe. You didn't know that?
Oh, yeah.. Cats.r. Once they're not. they're not hissing at you. you can, if
they're just sitting and watching you with their eyes wide, you can watch them
and relax and lower your lids and then open them up a little bit and lower.
And they'll start to do the same thing. And it's because you're showing that
you're comfortable with them. Okay. And so they get to be comfortable too. So
there's a similar thing with the owl bears, but instead of it being an eyes
thing, it is nesting stuff, like bringing something for building nests or
something like that.. But basically demonstrating that you're on their side
and you want there to be more out. out there too. I creationization. And like,
give it Like a stick or something? Yeah. But like not just a, but like are
nice. To make a nice stick, I'll ask you to roll either performance or
deception. Deception. Maybe beception. Yes. You may roll deception to. If you
don't roll well, it's not going to go at work against you. This is just bonus.
If you roll above a 12 on deception, she'll be really impressed. Okay, here we
go. Shit. That would be nice. Okay. So you approach. You approach and offer
what's really more of a branch. It's a stick to her and a branch to you. And
you place it before her and she seems to still relax even further and be kind
of confused looking, because you're all around her, all within range, and
you're acting like owl bears. That's really weird, but not necessarily bad.
You think that maybe she's had a really bad day and this is kind of a relief
for her?. So, uh, yeah, so the goblins, all three of them, see what's going
down, and they do not attack or anything. The one with the bow lowers his bow
and slackens it. The other two sort of lower their weapons, but they're also
holding until after the Owl bear. So if the Albert does something, they'll get
their turns then. She lowers her rings and stuff and her head comes down and
she kind of muzzles her in. Oh, my God. Love this. Just sort of rubs her. I
want to kiss it... I'm gonna get close enough to show a fireball right up its
ass. Or is it cloa? You see. So you're now out of initiative. Okay. The
goblins are absolutely baffled. And and funic says, " was amazing. Is she She
Are we at peace? And Serapfina says, "If this isn't peace, I don't know what
is." And she gently pets the el bear on her. This is so cute. It's unusual for
any creature, much less humanoids, to cure the wounds of albert. Alberts are
terrifying creatures. I didn't know. I gave you two extra goblins for
insurance so that you guys could survive this. You know, behind the screen,
look. And you solved this problem. She's.. She's not aggressive at all. She's
grateful to Serfina for healing her. She is feeling soothed by the smell of
Albert, and and she pecks at the stick and it disappears because that's how
that works. Yeah. And she kind of goes,. I was like, oh, shit. No, I know. You
going to be? I was like, my. Sudden suddenly she attacks and we all roll
initiative again. Oh, that's right. I should. Yeah. I remember that next time
creatures something. We got to be out of range when they find out. And, uh if
you like, this is a good stopping place if you want bio breaks or if you guys
want to do the food stuff. Yeah, if you want us to like spray the pizzas in?
Yeah, let's go ahead and do that and I'll think about what other options...
I'm worried about that for a week. You were justified. You were absolutely
justified in being worried because. easy to something. There's so many bad
ways this could have gone. In fact, I'll go ahead and tell you that while you
guys are petting the owlb, making friends with her, and she's nuzzling all of
you and you're having a great time, In the back, you see another one sort of
peek around and look, and then it leads. It sees that she's fine. and it just
goes back to whatever it was doing... I felt like we' one of the ones I was
gonna ask and I forgot was what was what I asked later was if they're like
pack things or not. Because all like the thing about it is there's one,
there's 12.. deal with them.. How long does a pizza take, like, 15 minutes or
20? 25? It says 15 to 16 So it's probably 20 before it's.. All right, let me
think about what I can do in 15 minutes.. Wow. I did not see this coming, I
got to add. Really? I planned this session, assuming.. that. No, I thought you
guys would just defeat the Albert quietly and not bring any of its buddies
around. I love. And I thought you'd go into the next scene slightly wounded.
You guys are crashing it. I'm gonna have to look. We learned from our boarure.
No kidding. Not all fights. You. Yeah, that's. a little crazier than a bull. I
think it's a testament to small beans military experience and the songbirds
bardic experience going from town to town hearing people's stories. songbirds.
Yeah. Chill out a second. Yeah, you're gonna fight someone at some point I'm
glad that I'm just be like, we can't trick this.. She's gonna go Tasmanian
devil at some point. ' devil Yep. I do? Now, now's the time. Do it now. Let
loose. Um.. I can remember. He's screw that heel too. Yes. I was thinking
about getting a he spell at some point, well. Well, and she tells you. She
tells you while you guys are petting Albert and hearing it coo and stuff. It
wasn't heavily wounded. It had only taken, I mean, out of character, it had
taken three hit points. So she still has some health healing, but she has a
limited amount of healing she can do per day. So that's been slightly
reduced.. Can you tell us how much health in our has? Yeah. With that 1, you
betcha. An olbert normally has 59 hit points. Oh, that would have sock we
fought it? Yeah. I think my That's. You would have to do 10 hit points damage
per person in the fight. There's six of you. So on my only damage dealing
spell, it's, I think it's 3D6. So is that I roll the six sided dice. Three
times added together, yeah. So that's between three and 18 points of damage
with an average of 9 and a half or something. Yeah. Yeah. Well, no, that's
actually fine because when you're rolling 3d6, the bell curve gets pretty
narrow. Okay. You would have very likely rolled 10 and a half. So, like, 10 or
11, and that would have been your 10 points worth of damage. Yeah. I don't
know about the goblins. They're not, the two of them are not class levelled.
They're just goblin like monsters. Yeah. So they're like one quarter challenge
rating. They're not that tough. I mostly put them in there to serve as
tactical pieces to use, like as bait or for the Albert to take them out first.
Knock them off a cliff. I was going to command the goblin to thege and then
towards the go. Sunic would not have been happy about that. I'm I'm I'm really
glad it didn't come to that. God, what would I have done? I don't know. I'm
going to be thinking about that.. Very likely. He would have. And actually,
Serafina might have left, too. that I think. Well, I wonder his command like
a. It's a spell, but I can't it like, encourage the ggle to go towards the
edge. You speak a one-word command to a creature you can see within range. The
target must succeed on a wisdom saving throw or follow the command on its next
turn and then choose the command. So that would be an act of aggression
against whoever you commanded. Unless you told them to do something they were
going to do anyway, and then they'd be like, I'm gonna. So in that case if I
wanted to like not do itgressively. You'd just ask them to. Just ask me. Okay.
Now, if you wanted to really ask them, like if you want to put your Bartic
stuff to use, you might use persuasion, Okay. which you have plus five in.
Yeah. That's how you would do it. You would roll persuasion. I need a away No.
Yeah, you're probably better off persuading than commanding most of the time.
The times that you would need to command are when they're not friendly. But
persuade I can't use on You can. You can try. How well it works, will depend
on whether you share a language, whether you share culture, that kind of
stuff. With an owl bear, it would be really tough, but not impossible.
Normally you'd use animal handling, but with a critical, a persuasion rule, I
would would say that it would become willing to see what happens next instead
of mad. How does? Oh, that's a great question., then they get a second? And as
a bonus action, you can expire another creature within 50 feet. That creature
gains one of your bbic inspiration dice. Once within the next hour, when the
creature fails a D20 test, the creature can roll the bartic inspiration dye
and add the number roll to the total, potentially turn failure to a success.
So you can grant Bardic inspiration to all three of your major comrades, and
the next time they fail any role that is a D20, like a Dodge, which would be a
deck save, a constitution save against poison, a wisdom save against some kind
of enchantment, that kind of thing. What a perception decide what to use it on
and what they give it to them? Yeah. Okay. Yeah, it would work with skills
too, perception, acrobatics, whatever, if they're about to do something, you
can say,You got this. And suddenly, they're going to roll one to six points
higher if they choose to invoke that. See,, I should do that before any fight
because it lasts an hour. Yeah. I just start with. And you get three a day you
an extra. If you fail and you get a roll my roll it to see what gets added in
two years. So like when you get one of your low ones, you can apply it to
whatever you want within. And raise it by one to 6 points. Yeah.. Especially
with our low. It'll come around. It' come around. Now, a lot of people get
hooked on binded dice because they think,T dice are cursed and they buy new
dice in hopes that they'll roll better. But I have a bar. You got to have a
bar, yeah. That's true. Bards, as you go up in levels, get more abilities like
that. There's noility. I think it's the bard. It's either Bard or sorcer. I
don't remember. But there's there's ability. There's an ability to.. What
about the bart? You the b. Like from Simpsons? I vaguely remember that, not
very well. I don't think I watched the Simpsons much after you were born..
Probably. Martha loves The Simpsons. Yeah.. Yeah, so there's an ability to,
after somebody has failed, when they don't have bardic inspiration, to add one
to four points to that score just on the spot. Oh, without worry. Yeah, and I
can't remember if that's a later barability or a sorcerer trick or both. That
staff with bar inspiration. Probably not, but I'd have to look at the
particulars. I don't even know what that ability is called, or spell, whatever
it is. Or spelllability, which is another thing. Because D&D is confusing. You
know, I was debating if I wanted to do a second class or keep going into the
bar, because I want magic. I can't believe you guys made friends with Alab.
Sorry... I didn't mess it all up. I wish my animal handling or whatever it was
high enough to have it as a friend. And it was you suggesting it to Sarah, she
wasn't thinking of doing that. Yeah. She absolutely was just going to try to
just get into that cave and hopefully hold it off. At some point, I want a
companion pet with us. So maybe I'll try for a week or, weaker thing, right,
with better shot. Let's see. So what is going to happen next? Well, I guess
that depends on what else you guys decide to do with that.. She. I'll wait
until you guys are ready, and then I'll.. Oh, and then I'll describe it.? Did
you put the okay? Yeah. There's in the carboard in there. No plastic, no
cardboard. Is it Do you cook it with the cardboard thing underneath it? No.
Okay.. Really? That's a ha. No, I mean, I wouldn't call it a fire hazard, but.
cooks. Wait, isn't there like blue stuff in the cardboard? Not always. No?
Well, I mean. No. So it's got the corrugation and it's got the layers, and
there's something that holds it together. But I don't think it's anything like
super toxic or anything. It's like Elmer. It's like Elmer's glue. I always
thought it would be. Well, I mean, the cardboard's flammable, sure. But it's
not.. It flames it? You know what else? Yeah. You know what else is slammable
is pizza.? I've burned a pizza before. I would be more worried about the
flavor and get out of the cardboard because they don't use the best wood to
make that stuff or paper. They use whatever they can get away with. They
bleach and filter it and run it water over it. I'll have another. Thank you.
No, I'm soul shugging as possible. I like the five hour idea, you know, last
time. Yeah. Oh, um, so now, Funix's going to ask Greg, is if this little cave
is still the safest way to go now that the the Albert is.. careful we' doing
it? Oh, I'll wait for you. No, no, no, go. Okay. I wish needed to make sure
Yes. Yes. Yes. I was eager to get started again. Yeah, so asks Grek and Gre
says.. He says something in Goblin because Tunik speaks goblin, obviously. Oh,
and you do too. So you hear and say and gooblin, uh, I don't know. I mean,
there's usually more of them over there. That's where they that's their area
around that corner, and also beyond. There's a long, there's a covered area
that's enclosed where they nest, and then beyond that there's another stretch.
Or at least, so I've heard, I've never seen it. And then Thunic says, and what
about this way? And he gestures towards the little cave. And Greck says, "his
way is safer normally because if you can sneak past the bullets, then it's a
straight shot all the way to the entrance. And.. The bullets? You recognize
bullet? You recognize from because Goblin is the Goblin language is the way it
is, it doesn't sound like bullet like a bullet. It sounds like the the hard
shelled digging creatures. Like a ant? They're it's like it's like a gopher
with armor. And the adults get to be... Hold on. I want to scare you guys. So
I'm gonna look this up..able.. The little ones are much less scary, but the
big ones are, well, they're big. Let's see here. Bullet. So, a regular bullet,
like not super size or anything. has a challenge rating of five. The El Bears
Challenge rating, I think, was three. The what?. Anyway, uh. All, these things
look crazy. Yes. Yes. Also called Land Sharks. Dude., the ow community. So,
um.. So what Greg says is, on the other side of this cave, there's a larger,
like open space, sort of like internal, like, like a cathedral, but it's all
stone. And there's an opening on one side that goes to the Albr's area and
there's a path down, straight down that goes through bullet country, and
between the two of them, there is an area that used to have lots of traps, but
they've all either been used up or disabled. And he says that usually they
take that middle path, they use their goblin sneakiness to get past the
bullets as long as they're not currently fighting with the ol bears. And, uh
Thunik says, why didn't Sul tell us any of this? Grek? Yeah. Grek says, um she
doesn't believe us. We've told her, she doesn't believe us. She's, I don't
know, maybe it's because she's old, maybe it's because we're young, but this
is what we've seen. The blood, many goblins has been spilled to bring you this
information. Many Banthins died to bring you this. Or Bothothans? Whatever.
Star Wars. Yeah. But he says, if the rest of the ol bears are not going to get
upset, then that path could be okay. Do any of you speak owl bear? And you, a
small be, say, "Alberts, don't have, they're not smart enough to have a
language. birds. They're birds. Well, some birds are regular birds are smarter
than elw bears. The corvids are smarter than owl bears. Actual owls. Exactly.
They go off vodes. Actual owls and bears are both independently smarter than
ol bears. The combination of the two made them dumber.? Yeah, they're just
really not very smart. They operate on. They're smarter as a group than
individually. They're kind of like ants that way, actually. Yeah. Yeah, that's
that's the only way they can survive, because individually they just cannot
handle any kind of complexity at all. Let's go there. hold on. Do you want to?
I'm fine with it. I am concerned that we did all this for one owl bear, but
when we get closer to the eggs and the nests and other owl bears. I'm
concerned about these little bullets. While you're saying this stuff, you're
also petting me all there. and she's nuzzling up against you. And I would
rather go that way. I just walking into a. I'm not as concerned, how do we
attack approach season a bullet? Well, the goblins did say there is a path,
but we but it's not 100%. We have. We to get past it. Yeah. So what happens
when we get attacked the legal? Oh, sure. Go ahead. You can go ahead and look
down the perception whatever it is, I would like to try to get more
information on these little bullets. Do you want to get creature information
like them in general or the ones in this cave? I think the ones in this cave,
like aggression. Okay. You can, let me look at this.. I mean, if you roll
really high on an animal, or on a survival check, you'll learn about. The lady
that came in and talked about the Albears will coincidentally also be talking
about bullets. The lady is going to have told you I'm going to have to give
her a name. It's. So let me think about what you're going to be rolling for
this. So perception would give you, oh, investigation would give you looking
at the ground around you and at the tunnel and listening at the tunnel for
whatever's on the other side, perception would do the same, but you would get
just the immediate results as opposed to the interpretation. Um. I don't see
anything on here besides those that would help you. Well, I guess in then
survival. So those are the three that are most likely to give you something
helpful. What's your highest? I have not here to survival? Is my investigation
and perception are both plus seven? You can do this. You can do those too.. Go
ahead. roll it. Yeah. Let me think about what you got to roll to do this. Let
me see. I look. You can go ahead and roll now. Just don't tell me what it is..
Perception was not interpretation. Okay, there's not much info here. Let me
see if. Let's see if there's more information on here. Yes. Uh, Oh, that's an
even scarier drawing. Um, description ecology, diet, behavior, Habitats. Okay,
let me think here. So, you're rolling survival. With a ten, you'll get..
You'll get like, what you would get from my first book on Bullets with a.
Yeah. And it won't necessarily be the most reliable information or up to date.
With a 15, you would get a little bit. Bet between that and what you got with
the Alberts, and with an 18 or better, you'll get everything. And if you crit,
then I'll make shit up. Stuff that will be true. What'd you get? 14. Okay. So
my first, whatchamacallit. So, these are terrifying creatures. They've never
been. They have been. No, there've never been any tamed. Okay. They They're
very aggressive. They don't normally live in mountains. What are they doing
here? What indeed? And they see well in the dark because they're used to
digging around the dirt. And they swallow their prey hole. Okay, I want to go
with the out there. What compared to a bullet you said a bullet is a five on
the.. challenge rating? What's the Albert? Three. Albert. Hold, I'm going to
confirm that. Yeah, it's a three on the challenge rating. I'll remind you that
you will get experience from going through this cave and you think there's a
good chance you'll get equipment buffs when you get to the other side from
whatever it is that you're going to find in there. They're in our owl there on
bus. You can try. to do if we're speaking. She might speak on your back. If
you're going to the Alb route, she might speak on your behalf with the other
owls in as much as they speak at all, which. There is anxis to the same. Yes,
yes. There's three ways to get there. You can go through the owl bears,
through the bullets, or you can try to sneak past the bullets and go the
safeway. Those are the three three ways that Gre has explained. I mean, we did
just do all. I mean, we did, like, you know, whatever with this Al bear. So
I'm not again. If you want to do that, I'm not against going. Keep making us
smell albert. Can we do like a perception check or maybe seraphina of like, is
that possible that we can go through? I see what she's got? is more feasible
to go to sneak. Yeah, I don't think our stealth's very high. Surefina is going
to roll insight to try to assess this owl bear's disposition to see like if
she's in the mood to escort you or something.... So, Serafina sort of looks
into the eyes of the ol bear and sort of communes with her. And she says,
these guys really aren't very smart, are are they? We could probably coax her
along to follow us, but she's not gonna, like, escort us. we we can get her to
follow us, but if we do that, we may have to do tricks and stuff on the other
out there, which we can do. And if it goes awry, you're going to be facing
multiple albberts. And we will also tell you, because I love spoiling stuff
like this. Two of those goblins weren't going to stick around. If they
survived, they were going to leave. They were going to say, "Well, we got you
here. We're done.. But they're sticking around because they're so impressed
with what you did. And they're like, these people are amazing. They can
probably get us through. And then they'll maybe get to find out what's on the
other side of the door.ade them. You don't need to. They're staying. So I Oh,
yeah. investigation. Was the investation? Uh, yeah. 20 for the bullets. Okay.
That's really good. So you when you first came up to this ledge, you'd seen
that the ground had been disturbed, but now it's clear to you that it was the
bullets that had done that. thought it was the owl.. It was the bullets. The
bullets are surfacing here and disappearing here and that kind of thing. At
any time one could show up, but there's no way to know. By the time they show
up, like, you wouldn't. They're going to make a lot of noise, but they'd be
here before you could react. But what else? There's as you look down the
tunnel, farther in, the ground's not disturbed. It looks like all of the
carving and stuff is on the mouth, not the deeper in that they've got. Oh, my
God. Do we know how far the ruffled ground goes? Hmm? It's. Yeah, it goes
like.. Like 20 feet in ish. And really, basically, the thing that gophers do,
where they go in and leave a bunch of dirt behind them, like in a mound, you
can see those, like the remnants of those mounds in this area and also at the
firm that cave, but then a little bit farther in, it's solid rock all the way
around, and they can't go through solid rock. See, and you said earlier that
they are normally not in Mount mountains. That's why they're not normally in
mountains. But these mountains do have..el world guys I have a jump spell. Oh,
yeah. I touched any jump tri Normal distance. Yep. You do it for everybody.
Well, you're already on the parts that they could surface on. You can But if
they show up, you could totally jump over them. So.. So Serfina says, I vote
for if we're taking votes, I vote for the middle path. And Gre says, after
what I just saw, I vote for the Al bear path, the right path. And the other
two goblins just keep their mouths shut. They don' like, don't They don't know
what they just saw, and they're just going to wait and see what happens. That
was yeah, that's all the people that I am responsible for. So then it's one,
one, and then the twosting, so then it's up to Oh, and Albert like settles
down and kind of gets comfortable and just enjoys all the petting. Everybody's
petting her. Yeah. Because she's soft. And sweet. Yeah. So Sarah said,
bullets? No, she said Albert. No, she said the middle path. So it's it's it's
bullets, but less. It's, you might not see them. You might get through with
stealth or, yeah, with stealth. I mean, we try that because we don't know if
we're run into bullets. We definitely know we're going to run into
multiplebars. And you know, this one might be harder, but it also might not be
there. And this one I just want to know, like.. I don't know if we're going to
be able get through walking are. bullets, like, are they are they are they,
like scared of, like thunder or anything? So if they get like a thunder cl?
Yeah, I think they don't like to be outside. They feel most comfortable in
their burrows.. But I'. When you're scared out there, too, this. Yeah, uh. I
feel carefully If you made thunder happen inside, they would be absolutely
baffled, because they're used to only getting cave sounds in the cave. Oh, and
I should mention for ambiance that there's like a whistling sound from
sometimes when the wind goes past the the cave. or except lower frequency than
it. in the cave.. And uh Okay, let's go. Yeah. Yeah, All right. I trustrapy
more than. I heard one. I don't trust the. So now I'm going to. I get out of
there. out there. Oh, my God, I had a. What if I am a fatmo with a fire behind
them? I an elmo and then it's a big piece of. I could do the same thing, but
be the dog. Is it the dog that's sitting, this is fine? I would love that??
Yeah, is fine. I am perfect. Yeah. Si Si in this coffee.. Is it? Come on.
Yeah. It's just good. roll that look. I'm excited for listen this. It's equate
me. You's.. get it. There are people online that think that their make that
work better. six minutes. I's. That's why. Yeah, that's. You like a little
crispier Robert? less crispy for me. L crispy.. That's not that big a deal.
Okay, now next area, let's see here. Oh, yeah, maybe. Well, You want, right?
Then we do three minutes. Yeah, I need to draw this a bit at a time, so I'm
not give you anything, not for free. We're going to, for the sake of
convenience say that that time went up here, comes this way, a little bit. And
that's you back here. That's as far as you can see right now. There's no
sources of light in there. Oh, look at you have dark vision. You can see up to
60 feet. So you can see Yes, I'm charging the way, huh? I'll use my fire hands
and light through today. It's fireballs down there. fire. You just fire. It
only goes as far as my hands. Just water. One castle. You both have the pre
agations. I mean throw a little bird down the way. It looks to you actually
moment perceptions so I can see it. You follow tits. My God. A t. I got 15
plus seven. Oh, you were a 100 picture, right? No. Do you want to light
anything? Uh, make a light? Yeah, I can do the rest ofitization. do? That's
cool. I lasts for You can sim light or snuff out a candle ture camp. Yeah, you
could if you a tort you or something.. Oh, Kingum might have a torch. Let me
see. She doesn't have darkfish either. Uh, Serfina, what do you have?
Inventory. 'Cause she has a lot of different stuff. Oh, she has a lantern that
you guys can use.. So, she pulled she takes her pack off. pulls out her
lantern, puts her pack on, and hands it to you. And it's a hooded lantern, so
you can make it so it just lights the area around you or you can, oh, let me
read the description for you. A hooded lantern burns oil is fuel to cast
bright light in a 30 foot radius and dim light for an additional 30 feet. As a
bonus action, you can lower the hood, reducing the light to dim light in a
five foot radius, or raise it again. She has enough oil to last this entire
venture. I have a question. Okay. Does it work if you know my fake image
thing? Does it do like light rays? Like if I do a 15 by 15 or a 15 footan
lantern, like down the way, is that going to actually reflect light or is it.
fantastic question. Hold on. I got look at. Yeah. I got to look at Songbirds,
spells. That's a really great question. You're putting me to the test here.
Silent image.. object creature of phenomena. Mio, fire. Like, if I did the
image of a fire, would that. I'm looking into it. like a dark fire. Sorry. You
want me to get in tonight? I got it. Um. So the spell description doesn't
consider this possibility, so I'm going to make this up. I'm just going to
rule this that on a roll of eight or better for Arcana. Okay. You can cast
that spell, silent image in a way that actually generates light at the
location of the image. Jesus. For the rest of this adventure, for the rest of
this adventure, what I just said is true. I love that.. GMs around the world
would be like, oh, you're too easy on them. Um But I'm more into it for the
story anyway. So yeah, so you you're going to go ahead and cast a.. Oh, I'm
going to. as I can 60 feet. 60 feet. Yep. A, what's something really bright,
man? You? No, you want something to stays lit, right? Oh, right... 15 foot
cube. What would that mean? That's like a. That's pretty big, right? It's?
This whole area here, 60 feet in. Or maybe I do like third 40 feet or 30 feet
so we get light going both ways. Well, you're probably, Gex tells you you're
not hopefully not going to be in this area for long. Yeah. So maybe all time.
Oh, and then let me tell you what you saw what she saw before that was, oh no,
wait, you rolled poorly didn. Okay, so what we saw was the cave like opens up
here and then it's just like, you were able to see the small be was able to
see the ground and then it sort of stops or something. And it seems to open up
when he sides, but you can't tell more than that. casting Your thing probably
just a big bonfire is what you' looking for. All right put a big bonfire here
any casts I to say just likes the whole place out. And you can now see that
right where you cast it, the ground starts to slow down, and it sort of slopes
down like this this and on this side, you see tile. It's actually level. It's
not stairs. It's feel like that. And you can see on the wall, these are
vertical or flat vertical walls. This looks like it was constructed. This
looks like it was its very level, it looks like it was dug out or something
And then this goes around well, he' got full lights, and you can see that it's
like something this way, like he keeps going that light. And R tells you, this
is the secret path, this is the way that's safe. I've been that way a few
times. We just have to get from here to here. He's like throwing on the
ground. It looks like this.. Mom. Hold on, actually, I have to decide what
reality is first before I.. We have our little friends, all our friends. I'm
gonna roll for Sile die. You have.. Yeah, you have all of your friends. It's
the two of you plus four others. You've got three goblins, and a human
paladin.. Just get some symphile Guy, so. Right, you want to take the path,
you? Yeah. Just take the Road. Wow. Okay. That's cool. Um Okay, go ahead and
roll any perception checks. If your carefully... You here, and you're sure
that it's accurate. You hear nothing. Nothing at all, no sound of digging, you
know from my first bullet book, that you would hear something if they were in
the area.. Okay. You got 25? Yeah. Did you rule 20? 18 plus You rolled. Oh, my
God, I forgot you have plus seven. That's.. How much more can I tell you? You
know what? Okay. Let's see.. Um Do you see really well down here for some
reason? Something about this situation and this being in your life, that you
created that illusion gives you an ability to see that there are double doors
that are smoothly open is this one. It's you can't say it. And and that
there's another cave going this way, but that's underneath on top, there's's
an upper ledge here that's also like this, but it doesn't go anywhere. It's
just like this. But down here, there's something. You can also see You can
also see that there's tracks here and over here, the doors look stopped. And
also a little bit like there's metal and wood construction in the wood looks
like it's very hard wood and the metal is scraped, but it isn't completely
100% conditioned. microm magic involved in this. This is great. I'm gonna
figure out. And then, oh, you also, well, since you're out to here now, you
can see that this goes like this, this wall is another wall here and this area
is sort of open like that and out of the 25, you feel great and you think this
action goes outside. Probably the owl there.. You think that's a good bet. And
you feel confident that you're comfort that any will it today. Okay. You think
maybe they're just busy somewhere else. What are these records that are down
here? Oh, down here, it's it's the well, we need to come closer to see that in
25 But you do see that these are animal tracks, but also there's You aren't
sure that we think you might need to see your foot in this area. Footp here
and animal tracks of here. Okay. And so I think we're sharing all this says,
ah, yeah, the machines are beyond those doors, they control. And the bullets,
that tunnel leads to their name. Okay. So we got bullets and maybe dwar in
machines. But I be dwarf. It's nice. Do we go. That's gonna come in really
handy. If you guys make it's. Good. You guys really hit the gold line or
whatever, hit the hit. struck it rich, that's what I'm trying to say. Well, we
got three options, but I think if the bullets over over here, I'd say it's not
today. Yeah, Rick says they've never been past here. None of the developments
care. They absolutely refuse, and they tend to avoid this whole area, they
only seen the machines here, they haven't actually gone through there. They've
definitely gone this way. machines? You don't want to do the door instead of
the path? Well, because they've gone that way, but, like, if you speak
dormant, then we have, you know, have to look at. Do the machines. have the
ability to talk. Oh,. I don't even know yet. Woman, just because you speak the
language, you, it might not be a as like, I understand your language. They
might not.? You might not authorize or don't think it sky. You might not be
authorized to, you know, give them the or whatever. But I bet cool stuff is
that way. Yeah. I also like, yeah, well, this way. Well, that way too, but. I
don't know. We could. I think that was probably safer because they usually go
that way. This is probably the most dangerous to we knowable bullets are here.
And this, I mean, the door. I wrote a lot for this. I didn't realize until I
started scrolling through.. But continue. I'm still looking here. the door.
Yeah, the divor? home we could ask how far, how much longer is this way, like
how far did the dogs ever get? Because they have a How far. Not far it's
that's like halfway is, maybe a third of the way there, that wall. Well, I
don't mind recall more about the dwarf machine, right? Yes, yes, you could.
And magic. And this place was this is a historically significant location, but
there is ample documentation that is not well trusted, but 500 years ago,
there was a big battle here. And before that, dwarves and gnomes ran them out.
And nobody else knows what they were up to. They know that they were they
guarded it jealously. They were very careful never to let anybody who wasn't
part of their group in, and they sold very fancy, magical items in town. now
and then. open the door.. I' door number one. All right, I just found the
stats for the Sentinels. That's what we're calling them. I can't wait to tell
you guys all the extra stuff later. be sent to know. Oh, no, I'm not here. I'm
looking for animated. I. There we go. Uh, Monster Manual. So all this stuff is
in that book there if you guys want to see it later. What is its intelligence?
One. I don't have to stick with that. That's just what they did for this
thing. Yeah, so we' Medium construct.. You don't know that. I'm not very good
at keeping my mouth shut. I'm good with me. animal or magic, right? Or a
combination. Yeah. Greg says, um. a machines. There's no way to avoid them.
They patrol and some kind of pattern. We never faced them directly. They're We
don't know what they're capable of. hell here. And you said, so you guys
decided you wanted to go. Or this way? I think we're gonna go this way, right?
But maybe go through it, like, this way, that way we try to avoid that. It's a
fox, right here that you can juggle on a smaller box here that you can also.
So you could like crawl down here and then jump down there without making your
noise. I have me to do self Jackson be quiet,. Yeah, we'll do that. We'll take
the path as far down as we can and then still b Okay. Um, how do you do? Hmm.
Have everybody do these. Um. Do you want to I do any buffs or anything before
you said about this? There's six of you, so you can't do, like, bic
inspiration on everybody. But I can tell you goblins are pretty good at
stealth. They What's their decks. Oh, yeah. They're going to be like plus four
to stilt, I think. U.S., huh? I'm only three. One, but. athletics three.
Athletics will not help you be quiet. No. I'll do a artic inspiration on you.
There you go. That way, it'll if you get a little. I also That will be helpful
when you encounter someone who, when you're face to face with somebody and you
want to convince them of something that's not true. Yeah. Since you don't know
if anybody is listening, much less who they are where they are. deception
doesn't help. Okay. Huh? Are we rolling for shell? Yeah. So, inspiration.
true.. Quit get? 13. Good. Reply. O. Wow. That's good. Misting all these good
rolls. Damn. What'd you get? 18 plus 3. Jeez. I'm on fire today. Keep that d.
jeez. Um. So everybody else did well because they followed your lead. Like you
were like so stealthy and like, holy crap, what I never thought to walk that
way. But you remember, if you walk without rhythm, you won't attract the worm.
I'm Do you. Cool, fat boy Slim. Um So with all those nice rolls, you guys
easily make it over to here. So you to use my thing this time, right? But you
have a couple. Just remember that for your later. You can tell that there's
more more here. Go ahead. going through the door. No, I bet you can go that
way. Oh. That's you. want you. Yes. I can see, what they already know
different spills like this, and that's what they told you. about. And then,
this goes around and there's a ledge here. that and you can snoop the st on
the fartter it's all But with your new vantage point, you can listen carefully
and check her new information if you like., I want to save your good goals.
Yeah. going? Yeah.. So the goblins are surprisingly great. largely, even
because of what you guys have been doing. You just never seen anybody, like,
not fight. That's really weird today. This whole being polite in camping is
new to them. It's something to me too. It's a. It's something soynic. started
pushing for in the kingdom on this sort of like chief, I mean. And so
everybody was like, well, if the chief says so, I guess I could try to be like
one. stiff on the ground. I'm not even a gonna roll second cell roll because
everybody rolled well above the I had in my mind. and sneak over here and then
he smell up. What's his perception? Where's?. Whoa. Okay. Um So he doesn't
want to make noise, so he's, oh, wait. Does he hear spells? I forget. Yeah, he
has message. So, he points at. Well, since you've been sort of leading
somehow, he just points to you, and he figures that you can share it with the
rest of the group. Yeah. He says, he doesn't see any of the machines at the
moment. Which means they'll probably be around soon. What I with my pin? No,
there it is. Let's see, can see that go from here. Go ahead. Absolutely not,
sir. Make him another treat? Mm hmm. B, what are you leaving? What's that
girl? Is even telling me. It could be a bit food says. Or not correct says,
don't really. And there's also a hole in behind the wall over here. And he
says, something out of here. And then there's some ruddle here. And this is
wall in here. Let's make this sort of look more like a wall, and it goes
underneath here, there's a there's a way to go.. And Greg says, I can see the
location of the seal, the door. And then, as he's messaging you that, you hear
the beginnings of clink, clink, clink, clink, clink, tink. And he goes, this
he says, they're coming., clink, Think, hink, pink,ink, And another one,
clink.ink, clink. There was some for some reason, there was a break in their
pattern. Who knows? It's another mystery, maybe solved, maybe don't. But right
now, there is a sentinel coming, one right after another, but sort of one at a
time. They can each see the one in front of and behind them, so if you talk
one, there's a good chance you'll be facing three.. And you have no idea how
many of these there are. They all look identical. Let's see, can you see? No..
Oh, yeah, he says their pattern goes, what away. In this area, they come
around like this and turn around like that, this and like that. And so on..
How am I doing here? Yes, I got about an hour left. Timing this perfectly. I'm
so happy. All yeah. This is one. Um. So, you you're here, you have options
of's trying to go through this way. Facing whatever there is trying to come up
with some clever thing or just raw might. Or you could still do this way, or
you could go back. But those are your main options. And Gre's looking early
unique.ique is looking back. and pointing a messaging and he keeps like, what
do we do? What do we do? Can we, um do some sort of check to see the hit
points of these? You'll need to get up to the doors to be able to see them.
Because you don't even know what they are. Okay. Tik and Greg don't know
anything about this stuff. They only know what they've seen and yeah. Oh, I
should you want to try to see if we can go through this way. Do you want to
just back out and go the other way? I don't think I don't feel like I have
anything in my life. Arsenal? Yeah, my arsenal that would do anything. would
see? I can. You damage. You know, I know, but, like, maybe accidentid, but.
I't know what your missile. It's just a generic..... I don't want to reward
that kind of thing. Zheit. Um, you can grapple and sh. I don't know. You. Why
does he even talking to? Like I said you're saying you want to go to the
side?. Oh, the director also says, other way, you'll still have to face them
the machines. They go both sides. Oh, okay. Well, there's no avoiding them.
No. Well, yeah, mine. Like, we're gonna fight these things or come across
these things at some point in them. That's right.. All right, well. Like, if
you saw the gap come along and then you went during the gap, they would still
come back after that, and there'd be a good chance that, unless you were
really fast, you probably, and you don't even know when the next gap's going
to be anyway. Now, you're not in a hurry either. You guys have been at this
for I mean, it's been probably a little bit slower than how fast we're doing
this. So it's been a few hours, I guess. It's been less than an hour since you
got your inspiration, but from the time of the entrance to here, there was a
lot of caution and discussion and so on.. But you've got like 45 minutes of
inspiration, like. Okay. And but yeah, see what we got going here.. It's. So's
fair to. It's both of you. Okay. Let's see, do you get any more information?
No, you get the same information. Everything Lunic said is true. walls over
here, some doors, a whole, in ruddle, it looks like this area was flattened on
purpose. This ramp going down on purpose.. That's a good ch. Now, uh, let's
see, I have you rules stealth to not draw the attention of. I having you
rollule again because this is a new situation. 18. That's fine. No, I. I mean,
technically, I'm supposed to find out what their perception is and I guess I
should do that. Let's see. What is that perception? six. I' It just so
happens, that's fine. They're. Their passive perception is six. So if you had
rolled one through five, they would have noticed. Um. Now, uh, yes, so you see
cyberpunk? No, steamunk. You see steampunk. humanoid ish figures. kind of
grotesque in a way, because the arms aren't in the right places and stuff like
that. But they don't have treads, they have actual legs, and you see them
just. That scares me, don't. I scared them when I yelled. Good. Shut up,
don't. And Let's see. Well, I didn't have you roll the to see how much into
you get. Okay. Well, this would be how closely you can examine them. What are
Rule perception for now to see how much information. Hush! Hi. Hey. Okay,
Greg. You guys are going to get. What did you get?, it doesn't matter. He'll
tell you everything. Buddy, you're getting all time out.. Yeah, but.. Well, I
just wanted to stop working. Well, yes, I want that, too. You're not going
time out. Do you want to go on your? Can we roll for animal aneline to get
this guy. The DC is very high. seriously. Is that. Maybe we fill the things.
You want to, like, take two minutes to do it, you know? Okay. He's gonna give
his owl bear is gonna give him on it. Oh, yeah, the owl bear, you left her
behind. She didn't come with you. in. Oh, God. He's more of a foolish, though.
Yeah. That's true.. So, yes, you see the steampunk machines. They Slam attack,
huh? You can't They're not carrying any obvious weapon. You assume it's safe
to assume that their weapon is their ability to just hit stuff.. You can't
let's see, 18. Go on, chicken. They're all maintained. They're all, they're
old. They're over 500 years old. But you can't tell the difference between any
of them because they're all up to like, 90% repaired. Each one that goes by,
you see a little bit different scratchers on it, and you would guess correctly
that it's either talons or bullet attacks.. Beek's Talons and whatever bullets
have have have messed with these things, but then they've gotten repaired so
that all there is a superficial damage. Romy insight, both of you.cause I want
to tell you something that looks a free 144. Yeah. It occurs to you something.
Somehow they're getting repaired. Someone's repaired. Or something. There is
some way that these things are able to continue to fight against these
aggressors. And these things are consuming energy. And you know in this world,
because I say so, that that conservation of energy is a thing, magic is real,
but it doesn't defy the laws of physics. It just, it's just sufficiently
advanced technology. That's all. Also, it's Wu. There's lots of like resonance
and stuff. It's all done with fields, as Ian Banks would say. So, yeah, it may
stick in your mind that, what are these things do when they're damaged? Yeah.
Yeah, and also, with your 18, you don't think they look that tough
individually?. Maybe they're not the all of the defense. Maybe they're the
early morning system or something. What was the other thing I was going to
have in here? Yeah. Where is the air it is? Oh, and since you're in there, you
also notice thing sticking up out of a couple of things, sticking up on the
dirt. Here's here. kind of like a miniature doll. So it's just this sort of
comical shape and this a little protrusion. It looks like it made they'd be
able to swim all or something. Looks like it might be some kind of turret
defense. There you go. That is your information and your insight. What do you
want to do? So like a turret defense? Yeah, so it looks like maybe those two
turrets can turn on and like shoot things.. And one or two more automatons
might. She says, "Don't reward them," and then she rewards them. Yeah. Spine
of a squid. And you do we know how many machines in here are there? So while
you're watching and you're watching for a while, like 15, 20 minutes or
something,. You can kind of notice marks on them that you would see, you would
recognize again if that same one came back around. And you never see one come
back around. It's different ones each time, so every five minutes or so, you
see a new one. So there's at least five. our turds and then up to five
possible.. But they might not all come at once if you subdue one or whatever.
down? I don't think so, but let me check. I'm pretty sure because these are
constructs, they're immune to sleep, but let's see. Like they're under you try
to fight one at a time? Do we fight I don't think we can go too far in because
then we're going to get hit by the very possibility. If it knows you're there.
We did little pretty high. Yeah. Yeah, but I don't know. It'll carry you into
the next room, yeah. I'll allow it. I prefer my. Oh, but yours was only a six,
so, yeah. What is the. Hold on, let me look at the Well, I'm not going to tell
you the answer, but I have to look up the turret and see if it would notice a
six. Oh, man. is that Greg' both of these ways. So where? I think there is a
thing over there. Right? So there was three different ways out of this room.
There was these two that brick said, don't do. He said, yeah, and you're
thinking, he probably means bullet territory. Okay. And then there's one over
here. I's the ledge. So this is a wall above here. Oh, God. There's a
passageway into here, and Greg says, that's the way to the door that you're
trying to get to. No, what's your probably that? That's. Um. Yeah, so. let I
want to do this. You't want to see if we can get more influ about the anronic
thing? I. is acid, like. Exer damage? Yeah. See. Let's see, to find that out,
you would roll... You would roll either. Gosh, what would you roll for that? I
guess Arcana.. To know, like the weaknesses and strength of the animated
machine. Yeah. You do know because everybody knows this, that gnomes end
dwarves are able to put magic into items, and that can include the ability to
animate them. Yeah, so Arkana that's enough. Yeah. Was that 14? And looking at
this stuff? Because, yeah, that's 10 is normal. 14 is four levels above that.
Okay. You're like, thoseose turrets don't have perception. They don't. They're
triggered by the the machines. So if you can sneak past the walking around
machines, the turds won't do anything. And what was your other question about
the machine? Oh, the acid thing. Let me see. Is mediums are. If it doesn't say
on here, I'm going to say they're weak to acid. I'? Yeah, well, there's magic
on them, and the doors and gnomes know about acid, so they would probably try
to make them protected from that, but there's only so much you can do,
especially against some magic acid.. I don't see anything on here about it, so
I'm gonna say you think that your acid attack will do half again damage. You
roll whatever you got, you take half rolling rounding down, and you get that
much more. Hi.ink. Soinkink. Where are you hanging out there? There's there's
a space in between, so I'm wondering at what's going trigger the trial because
the turret's not triggered at them. Yeah, they're trigger, they aren't
triggered. They're controlled by the machines that are walking around. The
machines, if they detect something, they'll turn the turrets on, and.. So we
know what's on this or Yeah, they're going counterclockwise. There's this way.
Yeah, they's not.. Oh, this way. Yeah. Oh, They come out of here. Why don't we
just go with this mind. And I's go into the door, go to the door. Yeah, and we
could use sneak or whatever, and you can do your jump, if it doesn't. Now, it
says, is it? Did you never see that. Did he just hit.. pause it there for you.
Yeah. And then then it's only one at a time and then another one. Right. This
is will disappear and then another one come out. Is it going through the same
door? Yeah, they're if we do it, is it going to pass it as we're going into
the next room? The rules for deception. That's true. You do get to deceive an
entity like this. And I have disguised self. It has to have the same limbs.
Can I see if I can disguise myself as one and lying behind it? Let me read
that spell.... Yeah, you might be able to do that, and then you could learn
more about them.. The main r also goes. Where it is. There's songbird, the
skies. What is that, an action or a spell? Looks like it's a spell. Or I've
been making bullet here to see if it does stuff to it and then we go.. You
know what I mean? Because they gold. Because maybe it doesn't fight, maybe.
Like, we don't know if it's going to fight or if'ering, but if I put a bullet
where both put on there're both here to draw its attention, maybe, But then..
So maybe we wait for it to go, like, clink, cl, clink, clink over here, bullet
right here. And then it go. Yeah, because I'm thinking if they cross here, we
want to be going through it when this is like back here. So having it. Yeah,
you can do that. Yeah. Yeah. is a rainbow. Yeah. You think that that would
work? Which way would you? The bullet distraction to get the tur or do you
want to risk going in front of the tur and disguise we also these crossing the
other ones. coming No, I was saying. That's true. when it's here. Yeah. When
it's here, we can do bullet one. Or if it's here, then, I don't know, but if
we follow it out, another one's coming in. How far can they see? Because maybe
we stop here. here and then we go. Yeah. You think they can probably see as
well as. Well, they've been operating in the dark. Oh. So you think probably
they don't depend on regular site. Maybe they have some kind of echolocation
or infrared or something. I had to make that up just now.. We a bullet, we do
a sound, we' distracting. I a distraction. Okay. Wow, this one's over. He's.
Like, right after it passes us. Like, right after, like after right after the
door and how the squab squabble out. put a big bullet, you can press dation
like a sound of a bullet. Yeah. We both have prest. I do one. one. And then.
It's of a fit? Yeah.. Think of it like.. Think of it like the sentence, press
the digit nation. But then you have to change some of the letters. Press the
digitation. I not good on this though if you You've taken enough time. You
could roll again. You could be more. You can be more careful. I'm worried
about the turret, not. it's then. You can also bically inspire yourself, can't
you? Yes. Is that true? Or did I make that up? Let's see. Oh, it probably did
then. But I do get, I think, three. Oh, it does say another creature. Yeah,
you get three a day. to do it on All right, let's make some. All right, let's,
so I'm thinking I'm going to move up when this guy gets around here to cast a
bullet in this corner in a big bullet. and then it's just going to be there
and you're going to do the sound of it. It's going to get more realistic.
Sure. Okay.. Cool. I don't think it has to roll for that. Oh, I have to think
about how it perceives things magical. It rainer is only 10 feet. For the
sound? For negation. Press the digit nation. Yeah, you'd have to be within 10
feet to do that. But you can see what happens when he makes the bullet show
up. And I think I have to respect the text here Silent image says purely
visual,. I didn't know that Two bullets. So I could sculpt something once I'm
here. You could sculpt a baby bullet. How big can your sculpture be? Yeah,
cute That's okay. Yeah, there are baby bullets that size. Oh, well. Very
small. It was very small. Yeah. That would be useful in other situations.
You're going to press on with the silent image? Yeah, right. Is that? Yeah.
Small be? Since. Since you were able to cast light with your previous image,
I'm going to say you can make heat with this one. Make heat? Yeah, you can
give it a thermal signature. Oh. That's me reading into the, it's a purely
visual thing that it works in the RF spectrum. So you can do ultraviolet, you
can do it for red, you can do microwave. Something that it would be able to
pick up on. Right. Yeah, because I was. You get to have it all. What if they
see through If it's infrared, you can make it so that it gives off the heat
signature. If it's if they do echolocation, you're fucked. So bullet with the
heat. Yeah. All right, let's see, do you need to roll anything? I'm gonna
reread that again. Oh, my God. Oh, wrong character. I don't think you roll
anything to to see through the illusion. They don't have an option to see
through the illusion. It only gets dissipated by if something passes through
it or something. Oh, no, here we go. checks or something. A creature can take
a study action. That's not a thing. I don't know what they're talking about.
Actually, I think I do know what that is. To examine, it's basically doing
like a perception, but it takes up an actual technical action like in battle.
To examine the image and determine if his illusion with a successful
intelligence check. It would have to take a study action. That's okay. No,
that's fine. Okay. Would you like to go ahead and try that? how intelligent
are these things? Okay.. And where are you Mark? I give you that. What's that
face? plastic. Yes. Go ahead, wherever you're. I think I'm going to put the
bullet, I can go I'm assum I got. left here, right? Am I still? You' probably
have to see it. It like 30 foot on the side. 6. slash 15 feet. Oh, that's not
good it is from. I'm going to sayight otherwise it doesn't make sense. Okay.
So you can pe around, take care of your. Yeah. And then pass that. Does that
have verbal components? It's. Is that the V? Yeah. So you if it's got a V,
then you've got to also say the magic words. Okay. You'll need to roll to say
them quietly. Okay. What's it go? That's going to be stealth again. Plus, we
Okay, yeah. You don't even hear it yourself. Yeah, so go ahead and place that.
Mix the turret. Okay. Um. We're go into initiative even though you're not
actively attacking anything. Boom, please. And let's go ahead and do the whole
thing here. Oh, I forgot what I was doing. Hold on.. Do that. Okay, so that
will be seraphina's role. So yeah, go ahead and roll your initiative, even
though we're not really going into a battle. It's just a situation where time
matters. Very nice. 18. Very nice. Sfina got 10. Let's see. finally we go
first. Yeah. Oh, leave it, bud. P space. Six feet. Come on.. Uh,'s. I' dealing
this a lot, so small. Then, would you get 21? Yeah.. Oh, I's All right, so the
three dogs. Actually, I'm going to roll all three of these.lin's got goblin.
Is that just an initiative, though? Yeah. That's just a. And then. It's
dexterity. It is... You have plus two. 17. Okay, so, let's see, sentimental.
bird. Birdman! Well, I was like, is that mean?. It's me. songbirds, handsome
man.. Okay. So, you cast your things and Smallby is next. You're at minute.
What would you like to do? freaking nobody. The reason we're initiative is
because it did notice the thing. So you know it is noticed, but you't know
else. It has noticed. His illusion. It has detected it, and it has not yet
reacted because it's yet. Oh, my God. You can delay if you want to see what it
does. Can I prepare an acidness? day. It's not time. So, what is is that
what's the rain on? I'm going to put you on time out. I'm about to poison
spray 30 be. Time out. You're fired. Come on. Come on. You're about half hour
early, buddy. And also, not only that, you hate, not that long ago, pal. Yeah,
should spray us, small bean spells. Now, you're going on. Oh, does your acid
spray come from an item or. Oh, there it is. I see poison spray. Is that what
you're talking about? Yeah, and then I have my, when I went to level two, I
did the thing where I can transform or transmute or whatever. Nice. Very nice.
Okay. I would like to turn that. I'll allow it. Okay, how's this range? I
guess it's like. I don't care for that. It doesn't seem to say whether it's a
cone. Oh, here we go. Spray toxic mist, blah, blah, blah, blah. Okay, it's one
target, but 30 feet. So it's just like a super sucker. Yes. Um. So if you're
preparing an action to shift over his shoulder. Sure should.. And next is the
songbird. What do you know? Do you have Heaven castor spell and seen that this
is going on, we've heard heard her saying on that throw a spell over here in
the scene that. That's it. If it doesn't work. If it notices us or if it
doesn't it doesn't care about that. Okay. Who cares Or if it's able to
disperse it by touching or something. The turret does not count as a creature
correctly Correct. It's just aism.. It's a soup up trap. Now, would this
creature or would this animatronic thing be considered a creature? Like, for
the command so? No, for the purposes of this, it's a construct and I'm pretty
sure command doesn't work on constructs. Let me see. Yeah, this is pretty.
Yeah, I don't think it counts as a creature. But let me be absolutely sure,
because I don't want to cheat you out of. No, it's just a medium construct
unaligned. It is as suggestible as a grandfather clock. Okay. Then I am going
to disguise self or myself as a calmruct. Okay. Okay. And then start, slowly
readinging the way across. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Go ahead. Okay. move yourself.
Are you on 30 feet? Yeah. I don't it. 15, 5:30? That's the maximum there.
Yeah. Okay.'s have to light me up. Well, so I could follow him. Right? Hmm.
Last time you held your turn, help your action. And you can Yeah, I' allow a
action, but it will mean that you wouldn't be able to do your asset spray in
his turn. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Yeah, go ahead. I want to know. And what was your
sk do you remember when you? Oh, yeah. Yeah. At least until it starts trying
to see. Mine was only six, but it was because I'm an anatronic, the GB. Yeah,
Yeah, I could get a bonus effect. I'm trailing you ready for my acids for a
August in case. Is this stressful? Yeah, good. Um, I'm now rolling for it to
figure out what's going on. Where is Okay, it's. It's like, I wonder these
things fight the w or if they tell the turrists to fight. Or both.. Or
neither. Maybe they have been. Maybe they've been growing the bullets on
purpose. That's not what's going on. That's not what's happening. I wish I'd
thought of that sooner, but I made this whole thing with that not being the
case. And the bears being. Oh, right, I was going to look at som birds,
disguise. No, not the yes, the disguise itself and the silent image. Got look
at the silent image again, even though I looked at it 30 times today. Oh, it's
concentration. It's disguised self? No, disguised self is not concentration,
so you're fine. You can only concentrate on one thing at a time unless you get
something to help you with that.. The study action. It is not going to use the
study action. It's going to use perception, and that's just going to show it
that it's there. It's not going to see through the like it can't see through
it without taking a hole around to examine it closely. And it doesn't think it
has that kind of time. So these two things light up the glow. This one turns
and flashes a sitting of some sort of back here. I'm gonna say this one goes
on the same turn? Four, five. six. There's two? There's two of them, but.
Nobody saw you. I guess I should go through this one, but. Let's my ass. Yeah,
it doesn't see. Okay. Come on. This is spice. Whether it's on you or not, who
knows, but it's it's not reacting to it probably is just bind into the
illusion. and it got that far, and this one is staying right here. And this
turret, I' goes. It doesn't matter. dexterity. You know, I think it actually
is in a sentence.? So, I just You're really lucky that you stood in front of
this thing because it's not shootitty because it doesn't want to hit you.
Yeah. I understand it's they would shoot at that thing. And it would shoot at
this one too... But this one one rolls around and shoots it. I'm the roll. All
right. Thanks, then. And what is in jail? Good. I'. He knows what he did. All
right, I need to go over here. Dart trap. DMG 123. Just look it up. DB Dark
Trap. Dark trap. What the heck? Simple traps. Well, that's probably it.
Xanthar guide to everything. No. I'm gonna look it up in the DMG then.. Since
it's right over here. It's nasty guy. I page 123. Probably sounds huge.. The
original game was not this big, as you can imagine. 133. 223. And the back. I
don't see dark trap on here. I think that is from a different version of the
DMG, probably previous one, look in the back and see if I can find it in the
index. Notoriously, unhelul Oh, God, the deck of many things. It's not in
here. Are you kidding me? All right, I'll just make it up. Um.. Plus 8 to hit.
Plus 8 to hit. What is the honored class of an illusion? I think the armored
class is zero. This is a weird situation, but I'll just It did not miss. The
darts go through the bullet, and the bullet is revealed to be illusory. Let me
check the exact specifics of that. Songbird. Physical interaction with the
imag reveals it to be an illusion, a creature that takes us to okay. But these
things aren't very smart. How does that work? I think you get one for free.
Like, they don't know that it hit. They just know the thing tried to fire at
point blank and nothing happened.. They're just not smart enough to think
that's impossible. They're going to need to actually touch it to recognize.
But did it disear? It did not. No. No, this sentence or not this one. This
turret, if it were spent in, would not, but it's not, so it doesn't. That's
the Sentinel's turn. Sarah.,eryl. What's she going to do? Our gobs up here?
Yeah, they're up there with you guys. Peaking through, being amazed.
Remembering everything, Let's see, is there a relevant spell? Probably not.
Oh, What's that do? Now, whatever. Yeah, no. Um, okay. Oh, here we go.
Serfina., come. Oh, she needs to her stuff, too, doesn't she? Oh, man. Yeah,
she's fine. She sneaks up.. That's a move, and then for her action, she puts
her hand on her back and does she just say some words or. Oh, it's
concentration. Okay, well, that's fine. That's the only concentration spell
she has. Verbal sematics, so she mutters some words. Her stealth was fine, and
waves her other hand, and you're now better at stealth the next time you roll
stealth, you will add. Me? Yeah. You'll add 1 d4. Because she figures you need
it. He's clearly fine with the illusion stuff. I'm? when before? When was it
the D8, Hold on. I've forgotten. Already. 1 d4, yeah, so the pointy one, the
most pointy one. the next time we'll stop.. She did that. Now Goblin's over..
day we're gonna have to go up there. I think have to roll for that, be on
wisdom. Check, I think. they're gonna roll. Let's see, as higher or lower or
better for them. Yeah, okay. I'm gonna roll for them individually. Well, I'll
say He's with ser no matter what happens. right.... I want to stops. You
crited.. He is a ghost. He's not even there anyway. Sneak all the way in the
animal. You're not even sure if he's there.. Wow, I wasn't expecting that. Oh,
yeah? Mm hmm. I mean, it's a 120 chance, but still. Okay, so that's the other
two are going to roll for oh Shitness. For the integrity of their pants. Huh.
And they have to roll, let's see, what's their wisdom? Where did the Goblin
Warrior? Here we go. Wisdom. They're at minus one. So if they roll nine or
higher, they're running. One's running. I'll say it's the one with the bow.
The other one's running. They both got 15's. So they're they're like, we got
you this far. We're out of here.. Yeah. You don't know where they're going,
but they're probably going back to. You know, it's hard to be when you're Be
knows this. When you're so small, it's hard to be. It's hard to be brave.
Thank you. And now we're back to B. Small bean. You are standing between or
sneaking between surffina and the songbird. These two things are devoting all
of their attention to this thing. T. This thing just shot at that thing and
the dark went right through the thing, not. Honestly,ions a lot, I just want
to move up. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. I' just one, two, four, five, six. I'm
gonna hit the door. And you are looking this way and there's it's covered for
a while and then on the other side, like this far down, it's it opens up a bit
and there's a slope going up. And let's see, these things go. One minute, 20,
25, 30, 40, 25, 15, 55, six,, seventy, five, five, nety, five, hundred. So
it's more than 100 feet, between them. It turns of stuff. So Yeah, you don't
yet see another one. Cool, I think, yeah. sense. Okay. Um. And yeah, that's.
Okay, I get it now. I was like, how does that work? And then I figured it out.
Um. Let's see. So, yeah, you just see the two. There's none that way. You've
used one move. If you don't take an action, you can move again. and oh, and
what you see in here is there's another area in here and you can see a shiny
stuff. It looks like there's Dorthern Romanish stuff going on there and it's
based on what the goblins have told you, that is where you go. That's your.
I'm going to be. Perfect. Dude? You don't take action, you can do it right?
Yeah. Yeah. If you don't take the action, you can go all the way there and you
can there and you will be out of sight of these guys. I don'trive there. Okay.
You are there. and I hope you'll die. Next is the song. Wait, actually, I
don't want to do that. No? I want to stay at the door. In case I need help
this guy notices because I. We probably have enough time if you saying before.
Yeah, I'm going to stay there because I have the magic missiles that. And they
always hit direct at more than one. Mm. And it has0 range. Yep. So I'll stay
there and prepare. Okay. I guess. Next are the sentinels., 10, 15, 20, 25, 30
for its move and then it punches this thing goes And no, nothing happens, of
course. And then these two just start flashing singles each other. Like,
what's going on? This thing still shoots through it, and of course nothing
happens. That's all they do, I guess. Okay. Sarah is going to follow Bean.
She's going to just double moving in here.. She's got the wins. It's just. She
knows. He's a ghost. He just knows. And it's back to Small. So they're still
distracted. How come they're not moving? He has to. Oh. right? Where did I? I
don't know. Well, it would be. Yeah, probably. But I'm I'm actually walking as
the animatronic. Okay. So is that turn you like, two, three, four, five, six.
And then the sentence wentanked. And then Sarah ran over to the. Yeah, the
first time I ran over to the Yeah, and I'll be the same. Okay. Is this whole
situation is dealt with? As far as you. Wow. We haven't killed anything yet.
We gone in a place. I'd there's one board. There's always killed? Yeah,
killed. Well, yeah, I mean, that was fair. Yeah. We't done. You guys.. Wait, I
killed a wolf. Oh, yeah, you guys. Nobody ran off. No. The one ran off, but
the other one killed instantly. Oh, yeah. Yeah, it was leaping towards her and
she's like, no. No, no.. That'll do.. And she's tell she did not make its
legalizing death saves. You, not that safe work? Was that those big skull??
That's just for really important roles with that out. But that is, let's hit
points. Each time your turn comes up, will be 20. If it's 10 or higher, that's
positive. Otherwise it's negative. If you get three positives before you get
three negatives, then you stabilize and you stay unconscious as are at once.
Okay. If you get three negatives or before, you get three positives, then you
die die. And crits on both count as tip. Oh. Sorit success is two points, and
cris fails, two points. I don't think that's going to come up today, but I
thought I should mention it. Ew. And because that way I can joke about the
NPCs and creatures and stuff failing their space., in a really serious battle,
I probably would roll death saves for creatures that are knocked out. When the
creature's knocked out and making death saves, you can finish off. Okay. It's
just an action. If you're within able to hit it, you'd still have to hit its
DC for being unconscious, which weirdly, it adds, because it's for range
attack, it adds and for mia attack, it reduces the AC. Anyway, getting
distracted.. This is amazing. My battery's at 32%. I'm so happy. I got 15
minutes left.. So. Yeah, that was crazy. I'm leave this. Well, I'm going to
start wiping it down. because it as far as we can tell is no longer going. So
you made it into this area and it's this little cut out, easily hang out in
there without like you can back up against walls that's mountain scenes. It's
not really can see. before you see there's a smooth rock surface with a
circular metal don't like a vault the word for a door from the movies, right?
And it has a pattern that shows three tubes? I guess it' be the way to
describe them, and they're different colors. There's a purple one, a blue one,
and a green one. And you own your k, you, I forget what? Well, you can pick
whatever you want. Oh, 23. Oh. See, investigation for theeduced house? It's a
natural 20s. That's a cate. Sorry. She just c on hero. I didn't anything. She
looks at this thing and flat her eyes, pulls her hands out. She says, "This is
a door with an override. If we what we learn is that if you guys can figure
out what to do in this little alcove, the door will open. Oh, yeah. And you
know that part of it is magic resignation, but you don't know what the other
two are. The purple is magic resignation. D Dor. D ands are the ones that
gomes are more about the T ridiculousness stuff, so they do all the small
parts of the Oomicons. Theores are more about the big stuff. Like the anvil
inside is largely, the anul and bows that kind of stuff. It's gl. So you also
see to the size three tannels, and on panels in theic that match the three
sections of the. Now thing, the panels have two knobs and sliders. It's like
one of those Play school activity things to keep radies from crying or
whatever. And yeah, and the sliders are at the bottom, like, held by gravity
or whatever, and the knobs are twisted all the way to left, counterclockwise,
and they have a little pointer thing on them. And the three things look the
same other than the colors. And I had planned for the cliffhanger to be after
you opened this door, but I'll give you guys 10 minutes to play with the door,
and then we'll call that. the session.. That's have used. Did you pay for
that? I'll let you have it anyway. You got you rolled so crap on your stats. I
feel like I need to be a little bit freed. or anything, please? I think it was
That's somewhere else on the site. I got to like.. Who you picked up? picked
it up in the something.. Yeah, normally you'd pay however much built. Hang on,
let me.? I nothing you. Can I roll investigation to deduce how this mechanism
works? Yeah, that is a great idea. That's exactly what that's for. 20 plus
seven. 27. You rolled 20 on the die? I know how the door works.. You're
looking at it. You're looking at it, and you're like, That's, yeah, resonance,
like in music. Like when the guitar strings, resonate when the tuning forks
connected to them. This is some kind of.. It's a lock, but it's a lock where
instead of being mechanical, where stuff fits into each other and has to
match, frequencies have to match. Constructive destructive interference and
finding the resonant frequencies of different parts of the machine. But you
don't get to see what it is that's resonating. So you also somehow figure out
which color is sound and which color is.. The third one is mechanical
vibration.. And you explain this, and Seraphina says, oh, well, maybe I could
work that one as a, like a healing thing. Hmm. Maybe, but that'd be cool. And,
yeah, so it's. Go ahead and play with the dials and sliders now. I'll tell you
what kinds of things go on.. So it's off of it goes one of them goes by like a
sound, and another one is vibration. And the third one is magical. And
magical. Okay. And then you just sliders change that or do that or do
something ourselves. The sliders and knobs have each have a different effect.
Okay. The. The sliders control frequency of two sources. Okay. And, or yeah,
resonant frequency of two chambers. Okay. And the knobs are phase. So when the
peaks are, I don't I don't know what your schooling is. You, Kyle. I don't
know. Have you gone to college or did you do well in physics and stuff? Yeah.
Sorry.. I don't know if I have to explain phase or not.. So a wave of any
kind, ocean or sound electromagnetic, has three factor, three things to it
that describe it. It's amplitude, which is obvious. It's frequency, which is
obvious, and it's phase, which is where it is at a given time in its cycle.
And these knobs control the phase, and the sliders control a frequency. And
you've got two things are controlling. and it's two sets for magic, two sets
for a mechanical. You hear easily the sounds that you're controlling. I have
to take. I will wait for you. It' less than two. That's fine. I'll wait for
you. I Well, you also know that all three have to be adjusted at the same
time. Oh, okay. And they're far enough apart that it's clearly meant for one
person or two people not to be able to do it at all. It takes it's meant to
take three normal sized people, EDM creatures. It's Three medium creatures who
are able to hold all of those controls in a position for a time. Okay. But you
get to play with the knobs and stuff and with your musical experience, you can
hear instantly with going on. Yeah, yeah. Okay, so I will play with the knob
while, probably here at the head small the other two. Do you want?assing. He
wants tension always, always the attention. Um, the two sliders, they' the
ranges of tones have one's lower than the other, the ranges. Like at their
lowest, one's lower than the other, at their highest, one's lower than the
other, in pitch. But somewhere like that, they are that from you, whichver
way, they are the same. Okay. all the different sliders Well, just the ones
that you're playing with the sound ones, this is what you're figuring out
while you're tinkering with this. I'm going to have to explain this the
Thunder when she goes back. You can wait in if you. Yeah, I'll wait yeah. That
would be better. I actually didn't prepare the puzzle itself. I'm I got as far
because I did all this last night, last minute, like, late, late at night...
And, uh. I was working with Claude, the AI, and Claude came up with this
resonant thing. I'm like, oh, yeah, that's brilliant.. But didn't go into any
of the details. We're just like, it's gonna have something to do with resonant
frequencies. We'll figure it out from there. And then we didn't go into it any
further. And so as you guys ran into that alcove, I'm like, fuck. I don't know
what's going on in out that. Okay, so the three of you stand around, or the
two of you are watching him as he's playing with these knobs, and you can hear
knobs and sliders. You can hear a tones, very smooth, hum in the air from it
doesn't even have a direction exactly. It's just around. And as he moves the
sliders up and down, they change in pitch, and he turns the knobs, it seems
like nothing happens. But then he makes the two tones the same frequency, and
then he starts turning the knobs, and they go in and out of phase, so there's
one position for the knobs where they go silent, and another where they're
twice as loud because of constructive and constructive interference. And if
the sliders and if the sliders are just a little off, you get this beat
frequency, where it goes boom, boom, boom, boom, b. Now, you are see all this,
and you're like, oh, and you go over to the purple control panel. And these
three control panels are clearly like, you know, the nuclear keys where you
have to turn them both at the same time. There's three of them, and you have
to figure them all out at the same time and hold them in place while the
system does whatever it does. So you go over to the other panel and your ar
condom role is still working, just flying. You can feel without looking that
there are two magical waves, fields. There are two magical fields at work in
the area. And as you play with the stuff, it does the same thing as his, where
they're frequencies and phase change. And so the two of you start jamming. And
Saphina goes over to the third one, and she like jiggles it and nothing
happens. And you say, no, it's mechanical. And she's, oh, right. And she puts
her hand on the wall and starts playing with the sliders and she, "Oh, I can
feel it now., that feels funny. So. I think you guys are going to figure out
this stuff in time. We're gonna have a perfect cliffhanger. Um I'm gonna have
you roll a cooperative thing.. Come on. I'm figuring that out now. Thunik, by
the way, is just wrapped. He's watching the three of you, and he thinks you
guys must be gods or something. Figuratively speaking. Level two gods. I'm
going to have. I'm going to have the three of you roll one skill for each of
your things that you're focusing on, and one for cooperation, which is going
to be performance, actually. So you're all going to roll performance and
you're all going to roll, well, in her case, Arcana, in your case, whatever
your music thing is going to be, I guess that would be. Where is it? I think,
actually, that's going to be performance, too, because you're. But you get a
bone. Don't you have an instrument with you? I do. And performance is dancer
music. And does the instrument give you bonus? I think it does. Let's see.
Inventory. Panlute, instrument. It doesn't say here, but you have actions. You
have bonus actions, bardic, no. I'm going to say it gives you plus two. Okay.
It gives you plus two to performances. And your you've got Small Bean has a
You have some magical item with you, too, right? Thunder. Specifically
something that you use, like that's really tightly bound to you. Probably. I
have the Yes. That's it. Yeah. Yes. So you have your crystal and you're
holding on to that, and then you hold it. Is it dangling from your from your
neck? Is that.. Okay. So you've got your crystal here. You've got your flute,
and you hold it up to your ear as you're adjusting these things, and then
you're able to like really tune in. And Serafina goes to the, is that the
third one and she's like holding her head against the wall while playing with
this stuff. And then she's like, wait a minute. And she gets her staff, her
walking stick that she has, and leans it against the ground and the wall and
then puts her like chin on it so he can hear her head's getting vibrated by
this thing. And you guys can't hear what she's hearing, but all three of you
roll your, what you're going to be, what we're simulating here is that the
three of you are noticing what happens as you change your stuff. So that's why
I say it's like a jam. It's like a musical jam. You're just changing stuff.
You're seeing what makes stuff more powerful. You're seeing you like tell each
other, heyey, the magic's gotten stronger, all of a sudden. I don't know why.
And you're like, oh, the music's gotten quieter. I don't know why. And you and
Serafina's like, I'm hearing this, I'm not hearing that. So go ahead and roll
your Akana, your performance and Sapfina is going to roll her.. You have a
partyiration.. You get plus four? I rule? Oh, oh, she gets to reroll it. Is
that what? And add it No, she rerolls a D6, isn't it? Yeah. Oh, Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. So that was 10. What is that one? 11? Okay. And. Oh, you rule it for
your? No, I was just curious. And a roll in one. Okay. Yeah. I got 22 for my
first. Good Lord. And then all three of us roll performance., what the shit?
Four. I rolled a seven again. Um, so you start to like you feel like you're
really getting close. Like, there's moments where you're like, wee've got
this, and then you can't it doesn't like you hold it for a sec, and then
nothing happens, and then it shifts a little bit. And you're like, ah, who was
that? And And it takes a minute. And I think this is going to have to be a
luck gyril. lucky fuckers.! Somehow, despite Small Beans ADHD, the door starts
to glow, and the three chambers start to fill up with color. It's not
substance. It's not magic. It's just indicators, like LEDs or something. And
then as they all fill up, you can hear the clunk.. And then it starts to turn
a little bit, and then move forward. It's a little bit like the vault doors
from fallout. And then it rolls to the side. And you see inside and that's the
cliffhanger. So we got this. You did it. You nailed it., yeah Yeah, well, I
was like, well, what happens when you fail that? And I'm like, it just takes
longer, because you can take as long as you want, but then what happens? Well
the centuries are gonna be marching by all the time, and they might notice
these noises. So I just rolled luck to see if it was 50-50 chance. I just
rolled 11 or higher and got a 13. We also not.ic? I would have gone nuts..
That was so fun. That was good. Yay! That was fun for me, too. It was good,
though. I thought, I was just We did great. You guys did so well. Oh. We
didn't take any damage No damage. You didn't expend any resources. You used a
couple of spell slots, and you used.. one spell slot. Yeah, for the acid
spray. Well, yeah, but.. Now, those don't region until I get a long. Long
rest. use it. You're about to go, you can track it on the app. You get for
you, you have, let me see here, spells. You have three level one slots. You
can cast your canned trips as many times as you want. So message and preation
are free. Once per round, basically. But three times per day, you can cast
things. A spell, and they all count against that slot budget, so you can cast
term personerson once and command twice or disguise yourself three times or
whatever. And I think you did two silent images, so you've got one first level
spell slot left. What did you just got self once? Oh, okay, so you've used up
Yeah, you've used up all three of your spell slots.. Oh, it was the bullet and
did I do the ball? No, didn't. You didn't do the ball. You smell like a. Yeah,
and that was preitation.. So you're fun. wool in one. And the fire. You cast a
bonfire in the. So that's silent. Yeah, so you've used all three of your spell
slots. Okay, so that's each one counts for one. Yeah. Okay, so I can't do. You
can do everything else you can do and you've been doing a lot. Yeah, you have
been doing a lot. You've been. Leave it, R. Ra, leave it. Leave. R. Leave it.
Now. Thank you. Um, leave it. Oh, man, there's so much going on behind the
scenes... So then I can't I't use my mother ones technically use.. Not until
you get your long rest, but, you know, maybe when you get to the other side of
this thing, if you can find a way to shut the door, maybe you'll be safe in
there.. Yeah, maybe. You can take turns, watch. U four, you got four people to
stay on watch with Sunic and Serafina. mean more stealth cast, less spells and
do more. Oh, also after the doors open and you guys are like, quietly
celebrating, you notice that Tunix got his pad and charcoal out and he's been
drawing a sketch of you guys solving this puzzle. Oh, that's. And you're like,
hm? Turns out he's been sketching any time he could get away with it when he
didn't have to fight. And he didn't have anything important to say. He was
sketching. Yeah, a nice little scrapbook of us petting owl bears. Yeah, he got
that one. sneaking through, like creating bullets to pools or whatever. Yep.y.
Yeah. Well, any, uh, ideas, excitement, thoughts, um, hopes and dreams? I
can't wait to see what's inside. Oh, I forgot to tell you something. Okay,
well, I can't do it justice when we're already out of time, so I'll just have
to cover it when we.. I'm excited to actually get into a fight somewhere we've
been really lucky avoiding things and like things. I am when that fails, I'm
excited to, like, try to get into it. Yeah. That's not supposed to happen.
You're not supposed to just walk through a dungeon. We've been pretty,
creative. It's You've been very creative. The dice are not going to be in our
favorite at some point. Yeah. They really happen. Well, I'm clearly going to
have to crank up the difficulty. I've been going too easy on you guys.. Rookie
mistake as a GM. That's on me. I don't know. I know. If you'd encountered. So
the reason you didn't encounter any bullets was because I rolled a percentile
die and you got lucky. Yeah. There was a 66% chance that you were going to. So
if I had rolled, if I had rolled 34 or higher on 100 die, I was going to have
a baby bullet show up. And they're not CR5, but there was a possibility of you
getting more and more. I rolled a four. That's. So, you know, fuck you and
your perfect leg. Um.. And on the owl bear side, there were a lot of owl
bears, but they weren't by default aggressive. They were just defending their
territory. So if you had done a similar sneaky, sneaky type of thing and been
nice to the ones that did notice you, you might have been able to get by, but
it would have been Harry. If you ever agitated them, you would have had a
serious problem, and that might have become the cliffhanger. I think we got
lucky with where we were at the first place. That That wasn't supposed to go
that way. Yeah. That was supposed to our first? Yeah, that was supposed to be
a fight. But I So one of the things I want to do is I always want to reward
creativity. I want to make it possible to do stuff without fighting because I
think that's so cool. And you guys are so good at coming up with these things
together. And I like. You are a good team. Serfina and Sunic have just been
like, well? I'm glad we came along. And Serafina was like, "O, yeah, I guess I
could heal it. Like, she didn't even think of that. And that was, yeah, so um,
so you guys are getting quite a reputation with these guys. If they survived
to talk about you guys, we're just going to get out. They need you back.. Oh,
the little ones? Yeah. They'll be fine. They like, they're Northern not
fighting. We're not fighting. They got that far without fighting. ever go
back, we're, how did you survive? And then we got to tell them multiple tricks
we did on. And will show him the drawings.. Like, it looked like this. I
couldn't draw color with my charcoal, but this part was purple and this was
blue and this was green, and so on. Do you only get experience when you fight
or do you get it for like passing? Since we're doing a. We're doing
story-based, where I just tell you when you level up. I haven't. I think I'm
I'm going to have you guys level up again because the part you're about to go
into. You're about to go into an area that has a description online that I
didn't make up. And I'm I think it says you have to be a party of four level
three. Let me check. Level two, let go. No, you're going to be level three
now. Oh, yeah. Okay, good. Shoo! That would be crazy. Well, she never got hit,
so. Yeah. Was that's the great thing about even dod by the time we get a
fight, we have to pull. That's great. So that's good. Because whatever's in
here is gonna suck. P, first level. When do I get to a second level of these
things? Oh, never mind. Oh, and you guys are pretty smart characters. You
probably put the pieces together and noticed that there was this harmonic
resonance thing and that the cave is specifically called Wave Echo Cave. And
you're like, oh, there's some kind of resonance thing going on with this whole
thing. like It's part of the construction. thing. Yeah, in a way. Oh, yeah.
And I love that. And if it turns out that there's resonance as part of how the
machines work, you won't be surprised. Because, I mean, duh. Let's see. Where
is the part where it says, what level you have to? Oh, right, that's not on
here. It is on.. It's on DBB. Lost mine. So it says, when you get to the cave,
you should be fourth low. Shit. We' better. We better gain a level in this.
The vault we're in. Go ahead and take your third level, and I'll figure out
what's going on. we did Did you notice that Well, this part was all made up.
By me, I mean. that everything from the in this session was entirely. Oh,
yeah. And then I can tell you. The map that I drew on there? on the map? That
was, I took Dust 2 from CounterStrike and turned it into a cave system. That's
cool. Dust 2 is one of the most, probably the most famous map in the game
Counter-Strike. I have played it and watched people play it so much, I can
draw it from memory. And that was why I picked it. I was like, It was a little
bit harder to get the scale the way I wanted it to, but it ended up working
out. Ooh, my arm. Cool I'm driving like scales on my. You did a jack- of all
trades or something else proficiency bonus. I forgot that I have it from the
level. No. So you add half your proficiency bonus to any ability check that
uses a skill proficiency, you lack, like strength or athletics if you lack
that so just remember that if you' like, would that work if I I'm not a self
person, but then I can add my proficiency bones to it? If you have a
proficiency bonus.. Oh, right. Well, that's all handled automatically by the
app, so I never think about it. It like autom It takes all that into account.
So you're all of your skills that get a proficiency bonus will benefit from
that. I think they have to be the skills that you have taken some degree of
something or other in. Oh, in fact, on the website, there's a little a column
proficiency and it shows which ones are getting that. I haveatic command and
dragons's. Nice. For so. That's good stuff. Where is there's Thunder Mountain.
And then I need to.. So I don't know how, but Sina is currently owned by Kyle.
Oh? Well, like, assigned to your account. Wait. She follows him? No, not like
that. Just the character in the system. there? A handsome man. He is a very
handsome man. Wait, what is your, uh, let's see, Songbird, charisma. Oh, yeah,
you've got 17 charisma. You are an unusually handsome man. Collen. Anyway, I
got to figure out, I think I need to subscribe to be able to have room for her
in my account. So I'm going to do that now, actually. Like this and go like
this. Yes, I will pay your. I might as well do master tier. Who am I kidding?
Start your free trial. Yes, I will give you all my money. Oh, yeah, sure,
annually. I'm gonna be doing this for a while. This is how I'm gonna find my
wife. California. Credit card And I understand degree as if anybody ever reads
those. My armor classes now 13 Very nice. And my head Much better. Good
question. So on bonus proficiencies, I get three bonus proficicies in the
third level by taking college for the subflats. Oh, right, your
specialization. Well when I picked investigation and history, it said noble in
parentheses. When I clicked on that, then it said, it deleted my background
proficiencies to go back and fit them. Okay. I don't know why. they look at
your thing real quick. That sounds very weird.. So, let's see, bonus
profession. Bonus proficicies, investigation, history, and something, and then
you said, what did you do? So when I added noble history and noble
investigation, I mean both of those were in my regular background, it said it
deleted it from my regular background and I should go kick something else
then. Yeah, you can't double up on them. Oh, okay. That was what? Yeah. So
now. So I can't double up on this. But there are feet you can take to get
better at stuff when you get feats. I think that happens at levels four or
eight, 12, 16, 20 or something like that. I'm not sure. Right. So now that I
have room for Serafina, if you can... Yeah. If you, Kyle, can, when you get a
chance, uh relinquish control, I think. Maybe under the campaign. I think it's
like release or something. Let me see.. Serfina. I think if I. Wait. Yeah, I
think you can.. D uign oractivate or. see. I don't actually know where on
here. So good campaign under mountain and then. What? The only show us two.
Okay., got a second. Is that you. Go to your characters, it has a collections,
like your like this? Yeah, no. your list of characters a hamburger menu and
then collections at the top of and then my characters. She's going be in
there. They're Oh, okay. So. Why did they? I just edit her stuff. I was able
to edit her stuff. I think, and she yeah, she said my head's. Sure. I mean
Google it. Well, I'm not going to just Google, but let search. How to. Indie
beyond. Transfer character. I might just copy the character, remove the old
one. Okay. You can't transfer, but you can make a character in campaign
unassign it and let someone else in the campaign claim it, allowing them to
use it. Oh, do I have to unign it? I don't know. I'm gonna try unassigning.
Well, I'll try deactivate, confirm, and then. Okay, see if you can unassign.
My character, okay? You have like edit or I should be on the campaign stream.
Maybe you, collection? Yeah. Okay. And I go. And then And then scroll down.
Oh, uh, oh.. Cool. Let me see that does over here. in. Let's see if. Oh, okay,
so it didn't belong to you. It was just control. Yeah, it was assigned to you
for some reason. I don't know why.. I'll reactivate. Are you sure you want to
activate? Of course. Of course. I want to activate. claim. Confirm, andic is
assigned to me. Okay. All better. Yay. I have an action where I detecting.
Yeah. I should have had to do that instead of Arcona, but Arcana is makes
sense, too. I' probably should have had to do both, and then have a minimum
threshold you had to beat with your rols, but I like the way it went. Yeah, me
too. Uh, all right, if there's anything else before I go. I don't think so
either.. I'm gonna stop recording. Uh.
