This is session one Thunder Mountain. Yeah, same thing. You're probably an
actual sorcerer, but they don't make that distinction on the minis 'cause, you
know, it's just a person with a staff.  I can make myself look like anyone, so
I mean myself look like this guy. Exactly... He's got a thing where he can
convince people that he looks differently from how he actually does.  All
right, back over to here, to find the document that has. That's not it? Let's
go here.  Is this one. this one. Is it There we go. Okay.  Anything to help
contain the dice on the tables. Yes. Very nice.  So I was good. All right.
Imagine if you will, a lecture hall.  There's a murmur.. It's, you know, yield
fantasy. It's not long after what you guys are about to go into.  And,
Professor Jack Atabar, Bright Letter enters, his arms full of scrolls, a
peculiar goblin made copper brooch glistening on his lapel. He sets down his
materials with practiced chaos and beams at his students, Settle down, settle
down, young scholars, put away those sending stones. Yes, Master Thornwick, I
see you trying to message your sweetheart under the desk.  Today, we abandon
our usual discussions of cross cultural linguistics to examine a more
illuminate en case study. He produces a small crystal and taps it in an
illusory image appears a tavern sign reading "The Sleeping Giant." This is the
Tap.  Imagine the sleeping giant showing up there. Oh, this is where. It will
be.  Spring of 1492. I had just published my treatise on Cragma Society. Some
of you may have suffered through it in your preparatory readings.  My
assistant, Miss Sfina Moon Whisperer, decided to pursue follow up research.
Simple enough, yes. Interview some goblins, document linguistic of evolution.
 Perhaps catalog some new craft techniques. He chuckles, adjusting his
spectacles. What actually transpired was rather different.  You see, Miss Moon
whisper arrived at the sleeping giant tap room in Fandalen seeking adventurers
to escort her to Cragmire territory. What she found instead were two of the
most peculiar individuals I've ever had the pleasure of studying secondhand.
The crystal shifts to show a rough sketch of two figures.  First, small being.
Yes, that's her actual name, not a diminutive. A high elf sorcerer of noble
birth, who had somehow convinced everyone she was a security expert, despite
being, and I quote from Serfina's notes, " chaos in a tiny, angry package."
 She worked for one Grista kettlecop, the proprietor, who had apparently
adopted this wayward noble as something between a bouncer and a beloved stray
hat. Second, the songbird, dramatic pause for effect, as he would prefer, a
human bard, whose noble bearing was matched only by his obsession with
legendary musical instruments. He had come to Felin chasing rumors of a
magical trumpet hidden in the old wave echo cave.  Professor Brightletter's
eyes twinkle with mischief. "I can't do that. as an acting thing. I don't know
how to make my eyes twinkle with mischief.  Now, those of you who've read
chapter seven of my book know that the wave Echo Cave had been the site of
rather dramatic events some years prior. What the locals now call Thunder
Mountain had developed quite the reputation. Grown men would cross the street
rather than walk on the side facing the peaks.  Children were told that if
they were misbehaved, the thunder would come for them. He paused for effect,
clearly enjoying himself, as am I. So naturally, when these three met in that
tavern, my assistant seeking goblins, the bard seeking treasure, and the
sorcerer seeking, well, trouble, one assumes. The conversation took an
unexpected turn, rather than heading to the Cragmire territories for academic
research, they began planning an expedition to the very mountain that had made
hardened adventurers wake in cold sweats.  The professor grins. What followed
was a series of events that challeng every assumption I had made about goblin
human relations, the nature of heroism, and the unexpected benefits of having
someone in your party who can barely see over a bar stool that can incinerate
said stool with her mind. He taps the crystal again, showing a rough map of
the region..  Which I don't have handy. at the moment. But I'm getting ahead
of myself. Let us begin with that evening in the Sleeping Giant, when
Serapfina first heard the cackle of Grista Kettlecop and realized her simple
research trip was about to become something far more educational.  He settles
into his lecturer's danceance. "P, if you will, a tavern where the security is
a nobleborn elf who sits on the bar rather than at it, where the entertainment
seeks legendary instruments in cursed caves, and where the proprietor's idea
of helping includes phrases like, " if you tell him there's a magic horn in it
for him, he'll do whatever you want." The class leans forward, quills at the
ready.  Thus began what I now refer to in my advanced courses as the Fendelen
incident, or as Miss Moonwisper calls it, the reason I now always pack extra
healing potions. That is your intro. Every session is going to start with part
of that his recap..  I had Clog write the whole thing. I checked it for
whether it was bad in any way, and I didn't see anything I wanted to fix, so I
am totally AI pilled now. All right..  Yeah... I was obviously, I'm impressed.
All right, I do not need that anymore.  Now I do need to remember what I' Oh,
yes. So, the camera, of course, goes from the view of the surrounding areas
into the tavern, in through a window, and we see the the three of you already
in conversation,.. I'm doing this theater of the mind.  Oh, and I need to get
your name, Sandy. Holy crap. Oh, yes, Small be and go for it.  I don't know
what that does, but feel free. Oh, I should bring up my character sheets, too.
And. is not currently.  Wait, let me long, let me start the game. I didn't
know I had to do that either. I don't know, either.  My campaigns. I find it
less than that.. Here we go Thunder Mountain, View Campaign.  Let's start
this. How do I start it? Uh..  My campaigns create edit, create encounter, DM
notes, DM private.. Oh, this view is a little this little play icon. Oh, okay.
 Kind of. It's, um, I don't have a thing like that, but, oh, at least see what
this does. Game log.  Oh, that's handy. Okay, okay, um, so. Oh, that's the
same thing.  Interesting. What about Down here? No?  All right, well, we won't
worry about it for now. So, uh, yes, a small bean is at the end of the bar,
cross legged, I assume, sitting back to the wall, watching the door, watching
the patrons, and on two stools, sort of in front to the side of her, are the
songbird and Serafina. Serfina's a.  I made her human. Yes, she is a human
woman, kind of a librarian look, not particularly notable, just sort of your
average white, brown haired woman. Her hair is in a tight bun.  She's kind of
serious. She cares very much about what she's doing. She's really there to do
research.  She's wearing a full backpack, who knows what width. There's a bed
roll at the bottom of it. She's got a quiver of arrows and a.  I've forgotten
what her other thing was, and a. This is where preparation would help
inventory. maybe I should just look at... Oh, yes, and she says it's leaned a
walking stick/quarter staff against the bar, very close to her, she could grab
it if if it moved.  Dressed in travel gear, and you can see a little bit of
chain mail peeking through her. Sure.. And, let's see, she says.  All right.
We'll find your trumpet if it exists. But I do need to stop at the Goblin camp
first.  I I promised someone I would be there. He's been very helpful to me.
And it won't take us too far out of our way.  It's. I mean, it's the opposite
direction, but don't worry about that. It's not that far.  Uh. and you say you
want to come along, too, huh? Yeah, yeah, I mean, we could use all the help,
we can get. I have no idea what to expect on the mountain.  It's got quite a
reputation, as you've probably heard since you've been in town for a while.
Oh, and you would remember. going on today? You would remember Serfina.  You
would remember Serapfina and her professor Jack from when they came to town
before, because it had just been last year that they had left. So yeah, you've
met. Yeah, sure, why not?  And you know. No, you don't. But you.  Right. Well,
he brought in this idea of going into the mountain. And people have talked all
the time about it.  So you've lived in this town for a couple years. You know
the stories of the Wave Echo Cave, the battles that were fought long ago,
hundreds of years ago, and then the more recent excursions into the mountain
to try to find the legendary treasure. And those who escaped told harrowing
stories of the creatures they'd never seen before, and the strongest of them,
the ones that got the farthest, said something about.  Dwarven architecture
and self acting mechanisms that tried to kill them and things like that. The
mountain is alive. Anyway.  And, yeah, so let's see. Well, do we need to do
any preparation before we go? Do you have all the tools you need, the
supplies?  It's going to be. I mean, it's going to be a half day over at the
Goblin camp and then. of course it is. She knows what we're doing.  Go ahead,
go ahead. yell and scream. What? Yeah.  We're in game. I like your idea. Oh,
no, we're undertown....  Wonder which one I am.. And you just like this
Thursday, I was Sunday val coming? No?  and we're gonna do so quickly on the
night. We a shower today. We'll be in Denver.  Awesome. coming I'm not coming.
No, thank you. Impossible.  We'll be there. Hey, good luck. Yeah, seriously..
 Yeah, at some point. All right. I love you.  Bye. What? That didn't have to
be cold right now.  Not at all. She just wanted to be.. She wants to be here.
 She wants to play. She knows what's happening. I told her.  She doesn't care
about the plans. She's just coming up with an excuse to call you right now, so
she could hear all of us at once. Yeah.  She is adorable. Um. Let's see here.
 Where were we? So Athena was talking about. Yes, do you need anything?  I
don't know. magical supplies? I am magical. I remember.  I have. You showed me
some tricks last year. I was very impressed.ventory?  Oil ofery. Oh, I have a
cross those, I suppose that. Yeah, well, you've already got it, so you're set
there.  Let's see, inventory, you've got ring of Fire resistance. Yeah, 'cause
I have firey hands and burn myself and I'm Oh, ring of junk. I did not look at
any of your stuff to see if any of it was OP.  So I love the Two daggers,
which is good... All right, well, you're welcome to add Stuff to your
inventory as we need.ack?. Yeah, you're probably good.  There's actually rules
about how much you can carry based on your strength, which is 12. 12 pounds?
No, 12 strength. And the amount is how I forget what the rule is.  Oh, I'll
just ask the AI. the 5 E, 20 Oh, I see. I have this. I'll probably fine.
 Probably. If not, it'll be a learning opportunity. So how do I know if I got
myet?  Strength times 15, which for you, let's see, your strength of 12, so
that is 120 to 6, 180 pounds. So you're well within your. That is crazy.
 You're like like an ant. or dummy bele or something.. Carried many times your
own wheat. Um Okay.  Oh, yeah, and it knows what your strengths are, because I
fed your character sheets to it, so it told me that songbird can carry 150
pounds, and small bean can carry 180. I hear more than you. I told Martha,
that' just really really competitive, isn't she?  And Martha said, yeah, Kyle
is too, though. It's going to be chaos. All right.  Okay, I've got airtually
Excellent, I keep all the things I need on. All right. Uh, and I see songbird.
you have Thunder Mountain, Charlie, Thunder Mountain.  I've got inventory.
You've got a dagger and some leather armor. Let's get you some inventory.  So,
you, I mentioned this to you, M Moon Whisper, and she says, oh, no, you're
gonna need more than that for sure. She says, Sarahfina says. Mr. Bird, you're
going to need, can I call you Mr. Bird?  You may not. Oh. How would you like
me to address you?  Song? A handsome gentleman. Very well. handsome gentleman.
 Yes. We're gonna need to take you shopping. I love that for me.  We're going
to just go ahead and say you've got enough money, 'cause you're noble. We're
not gonna worry about what any of this stuff costs. Manage inventory.  Add
items. Let's see. Oh, I need to look at what Serafina has for comparison
because Claude helped me make sure she has everything she needs.  Oh, I added
my story equipment. So, that's gonna be. Oh, what's going on here?  What the
heck? Okay, well, I won't work. Fine.  All right, inventory. Let's see. So
you've got armor and you've got a dagger.  Oh, you need your what you do to do
music, your initial instrument. Okay. And you need.  Oh, I need to move stuff
into my backpack. I'll worry about that later. Um.  You should both get a bed
roll so that you can get a good night's sleep when you're not. a bed? It's
just a mat you lay out to sleep on.. And, well, seraphine's got a lot of
seraphina.  Yeah, seraphine's got a lot of stuff, so she'll just sigh and let
you use hers as it comes up. You should both get some rope, 50 feet of rope.
Let's see here.  I'll go ahead and. Is that easy for you guys to do in the app
or do you want? Okay, I won't worry about doing it for you then, which is good
because I didn't want to.  Silk is stronger, I think. And. Yeah, both of you
can not worry about money at the moment.  Just It has my money in there. Good.
biggest equipment. Yeah.  I didn't check to CSSfina stuff added up to 150. I
just put stuff in there.. What's the difference between Legacy gear and just
regular?  Older rules handle some things differently and legacy means that the
promises they usually make about balance don't necessarily apply. Since we're
not playing a hardcore, crunchy game, it doesn't matter. You'll want to favor
non leggacy when both are available, but otherwise legacy's fine.  Oh,. Okay,
I have my clothes. Let's see here.  Let me refresh... Scroll up what? What's
this?  And foot rope signet ring.. All right. And then we look again at small
beans stuff.  Tell me about this arena fire resistance. DMG 294. I've got a
DMG right here.  G to see what this thing does in case it, like, gives
invisibility or something. No, it just resistance to fire b while wearing
this. That is pretty handy.  I mean, uh. resistence.. Okay, just one of them.
Resistance to one damaged type while wearing this ring.  How much they cost.
doesn't say. Well, yeah, that's fine. You've got it.  You've got your ring,
you've got your ring of jumping. That is super handy. ring of mind shielding.
That sounds pretty advanced, but I'll allow it.  Cross spoken, you're gonna
need to bring crossbow bolts. What? Crossbow bolts, that's the ammunition the
crossbow uses..  You do need ammunition, yeah. Unless you just want to shoot
air at people. I's. the scrolls for level one andps.  So the spells you cast,
both of you, you cast without scrolls. I think that Small Bean has material
components to, you know what? Let me just check.  Spells. on the spell list.
Okay, canrips don't have to worry about it. You've got three first level
spells.  Let's see. One action, self. Where are the, I just have to click on
them to see verbal sematic verbal somatic material.  You need a grasshopper's
hind leg to cast jump. Oh, but that's the ring of jumping, so you don't have
to worry about it. And yeah, you don't need any material components.  You're
fine. Let me check Kyle Songbird, Spells. You've got Charmed Person.  The app
tells me. This is great. Yeah.'s not really an app, but To cast silent image,
you need a bit of fleece.  So, just put it in your inventory that you have a
bit of fleece. You'll probably want to have a small pouch of material
components that you can access. It probably won't come up in this arc, but
it's possible that you would be captured and someone would take your material
components away from you and then the list of spells you could cast would be
reduced.  That's why it matters. And the same goes the other way. You can take
the material components away from an enemy caster and foil their attempts to..
 It says, showing up in the. It's not in the inventory stuff. It's just a
thing that you add as a note.  F in your. Yeah, custom item. Actually, not
even that.  It's a, what is it, inventory. Other possessions. Oh, you have
scroll of Pedigree already.  So just add a bit of fleece to that. I like that
you had that scroll, that's smart. So it can be like, well, actually, I think
you'll find.  All right, uh, so we'll say that you're shopping goes well. I
need to look on. Switch to tab.  Vandalin. I go look at the Vandalin map and
see what the name of the shopping places are so that I can get them in the
transcript. There's...  What is Lion Shield Costa? Line's home? I don't know.
 Well, for the sake of the transcript, I will say, Robert and Claude, figure
out where people bought supplies in Fanderin. Yeah. All right. as you're going
around, the townsfolk are curious, and it's kind of a small town where
everybody knows everybody, and when they see small bean going around buying
stuff, and with some, actually everybody knows Serafina too, because they're
all from here too.  They remember when she and Jack came through, so they're
kind of like, what's Serafine doing back? And everybody's saying hi, and you
guys are kind of becoming a little bit of celebrities, you know, at the scale
of a town of a few hundred people.. or maybe a thousand, I don't know. And
you're getting some well wishing and concern, oh, we're gonna go hang.  Okay,
well, you've got Serfina with you. You'll probably be all right... There's
still There's still some people who remember when the goblins, I think you
guys read the thing, so you know that the goblins would come to town and steal
some food supplies, but leave behind some grubby silver.  And some of the
people here are old enough to remember when that was still confusing thing
where they thought it was a problem. And so they still distrust the goblins
somewhat, but they also have visits from the goblins. There's one goblin
particular who comes into town and talks of people and stuff.  He actually
speaks perfect common. And, yeah, so you get your stuff together, it's. It's
late morning.  And you set out to the northwest. I'm bring up the map for you.
Because that helps with the immersion, so you can visualize in your mind.
 Where is it? Is it on this page? Mmm, that's sort of it.  I need it bigger.
Open image and new tab. Okay, well, take this back.  Yeah, I can show you. You
are right about here on the edge there. Like that.  And you're headed, I guess
it's not so much north as just east. You're headed over here. And there's a
road that runs along here that's not showing up very well.  And your
destination is over here, the cave, you're headed towards. So I sword most
coast? Yeah.  And there's a more zoomed in map somewhere, but this is good
enough for now. And, let's see, what's it's on this page. No, of course not.
 Of course it's not on this page., that's fine. Oh, hey, that's kind of neat.
There's an interactive map that does show the tribor Trail and Falin and the
Cragmire hideout.  The Cragmire are the oh, yeah, you read the thing. The
Cragmire are are the local goblins. And put my.. glass back on its thing.
 Okay, um Right, so you head along. this road here., doop, doop, d. No big
deal. Um, night's rest.  I think that's just the name of it. I don't think, I
don't remember what the scale is on this, but we're just going to say nothing
happens all the way along to here. But then you may cut diagonally across
towards the hideout.  It'sina knows the way. From having visited the hideout
before. And, so you're plodding through some grassland unkempt.  There's all
kinds of wildflowers and thorny things growing and there's my outline. There
we go. What?  No, it was the longer thing I wrote. There we go.. And, uh, you
come a cross, you hear some noises up ahead.  Noises of grunting and some sort
of porcine, a pig like sounds of discomfort and presuming you continue
forward. Yes, let's continue forward. No, no, you went towards the pickings.
 Let's. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you're investigating. I want to eat the animal
I'm hungry.  But I don't necessarily tell you that. But now I't. The scene you
come upon could increase your hunger or your sadness depending.  You see two
wild boars, two wild boar, One is bloodied. It's definitely very hurt. The
other is scratched up, but not completely, you know, not in really bad shape.
 And you can see them there about, oh, here, let's get these things out. I
need I'll use these as co.! So these two orange things will be the.  Oh, no,
these two pink things will be the piggies. Actually, I'll do one pink and one
orange. The orange one let's hurt, and you guys look which way is which?
 Let's say. They' problem near each other. Yeah, you'll be near each other,
and you guys look like you're trying to go this city, so we'll say that this
is north and that's west and you're going this way.  And you get about this
close and the grass is a little lower in this area, and you can see this one
looking worried in as much as animals look like things, but you guys know how
animals look like things. And this one is sort of laying on its side, clearly
hurt. But the orange yeah, this one.  Sorry, no. I got that backwards. Let's
switch this for red, so I remember which one's bloody.  There we go. Sw
around. So this one's concerned about that one.  This one, oh, actually, I
need to roll for this. What is the perception of a wild boar? And you roll
something?  Yeah, I have to roll stuff to find out who notices whom first. In
fact, I should have made you roll perception. And I forgot because I got so
excited about.  Oh, bore. That is not what I'm looking for. Ah, I've got the
monster manual right here.  You'll be under DW for Wild.. Oh, I think it's in
the special animal section. It is.  W. And that's not what they call it. What
I put in my notes.  Note for next session include links to creatures in plan.
This is just for door. Here we go.  Look so pink's gonna be.. It's minus one.
Let's just go ahead and see if they get like a.  Had you guys been attempting
to think at all? To what? Sneak.  Sneak? Sneak up on them. Should I take that
in now.  Okay.. like we just happen to come. Okay, so, uh, as you see the
standing wild boar, I guess boars, I need to say wild. It looks over at you
with surprise.  And Sasha hunkkered down like it if you get any closer, my
attack. I should probably. Nah, it's not remotely intimidating.  Am I kidding?
But what did I do with my diet? That's what I did.  Get that up there for...
It, uh.. Oh, no, you get to decide what you want to try to do next.  Okay.
It's noticing your hesitation.? Yeah, it might, or maybe it's just waiting for
you to get to look like you're going to get any closer.  And then it's. Okay.
Do you want to give off any particular.  Let me see what your animal handling
is. Smobby. Your animal handling is at plus one.  Uh, it looks it sounds to me
like you're trying to be peaceful here, so go ahead and roll animal handling.
So you're going to roll your D20, you add one to it., what did you say? Roll
animal handling.  Oh, you can do it on the app. I forgot about that. Oh, yeah.
 Oh, 20 sided die, yeah. There you go. Yep.  Oh, dear. So, we're gonna fight
this before now. So now you roll initiative.  Rolling initiative is how a
fight starts. That is a.. Okay, well, I have them on.  Actually, I'm going to
have them on different in this week because. Oh, my goodness. Okay...  I'm not
supposed to say that. Um. Okay, so I need to bring up my editor, so I can make
not of this.  You, it off, Smallby. She didn't mean to. I switched my.  Okay,
the session one dot, I guess first encounter. the. Okay, so let's see. So you
roll your D20 for initi?  And so you're on two. I need to get the pens out so
I can make notes of these. I was gonna use, where are they??  Yeah, those. I
guess I should see if they're erasable first. I get.  You know, I did just buy
this mat. I tried this blue. Okay, without that.  See what this does., I think
that'll be all right. All right, so on, two, I'm not gonna try to write upside
down. Two small bean..  Oops. What did you get, Kyle? What did I get?  Oh, I
in? Oh, I's just a real initiative. D20 plus whatever your initiative bonus
is.  Yeah. Four, what's your vit ship? Two.  Okay, so you're on six.. Six. on.
Oh, what's the initiative bonus of a bore?  Uh. This is the kind of thing I
should have had it ready in advance and forgot about.Cause I did all this prep
about 1:00 in the morning. No.  Last night, this morning. So it's fresh. Or I
just had this over.  I should have left it. Here we go. New strip plus zero.
 Okay, so 10 is the wounded boar. I guess I should say red. And at 20. is.
 It's not like, mom. N, it was it was ready to pounce anyway. I'll just say
pink board.  More? Okay, and then we're gonna use this green thing to indicate
where we are in the order. Oh, let's move these guys over.  Go ahead and push
your guys up that way, like five spaces. There we go. And then if the
excitement gets too close, we'll deal with that then.  And right now, there
are no obstacles in your proximity to interfere with your movements, just
grass everywhere. It's normal. It's the distance.  Yeah, it's just distance.
Normally, in an encounter. there would be rough terrain, there would be walls,
pits, that kind of thing, but we're doing the simplest thing right now. on
purpose. So I don't need to put the initiative on there, but I do need to
track hip points.  So boar red, or pink. I know what you are. I look up what
their points are on here, and then I adjust them according to my plans..  And
then I should probably track your hit points, too. Small beam, you have 11, I
think? And songbird, I don't remember.  I don't know that interface. Songbird,
you have. Where is hip points?  Oh, you're at nine. Okay. Okay.  Good news is
you have more hit points than they do in total. Um So, yes, the pink bore, uh
is going to attack Bean because she stepped forward or small. Let's see.  So
it's going to take a movement speed. 40. Holy cow.  It runs right up. one,
two, three, four, five, six, uh, yeah, so it runs right up to you and
attacks.. Oh, yeah, that's definitely gonna. That's it.  Almost certainly.
We're open to the world, will be.. What is it t bonus?  a friend life friend
shape. Did already we up the other board.. It's concern for its mate..  I
don't see where it's a track is. It's weird. I'm gonna say it's plus zero,
because they're just bores.  So now the question is, is your AC 17 or higher
and the answer is, uh 13. So your armor class is 13, the bore hits. What is
it's?  And I'm sorry, there's no way we can because it got a higher
initiative. It just goes first. Okay.  If you had been here in that R by you
get an attack of opportunity, but if you've got an action in your, you
wouldn't, because it's your first level. But if you had an action was a thing
you could do that said reaction, then you could react and do something
preemptively. Let's see.  So it is going to.. What is the? You know what I'm
going to?  I'm going to go look for Bor at the beginning of the book. Where
are you? Is it proficiencies?  It's under abilities.. Season the skills.
Skills is the right.  BO.? It's not in here. Okay, fine..  Maybe at the
beginning of the animal section.? No, I don't. Oh, wait.  Plus. Huh. Oh, here
we go. like, it's not very good.  You know, you rolled it what? You had a one
in 20 badet.. So it's plus three detect.  That doesn't matter. Reach of five,
it hits. 16 plus one. Ooh, that's a lot of.  Let's just go ahead and get our
D6 out and see. D6 All right. It gores you.  It comes running at you, and with
its tusk. right in the gut, you're completely caught off guard, because it
rolled 18 to attack. And and it does seven damage to you. Taking you down to
four.  Four, what? Uh, Hit points. Four. minus seven. campaign.  We'll see.
I'm gonna save you. That's right, that's right.  The There is healing in this
world. Oh, I forgot to put serfina in the I didn't roll initiative for Sfina.
She's not going to roll 20.  She did not roll 20. But she is not completely
useless. Where is Sirfina??  She is at Ann. nearly immediately. Plus. So she's
17 on the list.  Yeah, she goes next. 17 Sarah. and then she. Okay, so did I
finish resolving your combat?  I. Do I need to like. What's the do I thing?
The B does nothing else.  You're completely shocked. You're You're extending
your hand forward in a nice way and suddenly this thing comes charging at you
faster than you thought it could possibly move in the first place, especially
since it's kind of wounded. Wow.  And it leaps at you, gores you, and then
steps back a little. And then serina will uh. Oh, I need to put her on the
board.  I'll put her as yellow, since we don't have that yet. and say that
she's over here for something. No, she'd be next to you. She stepped forward
over her there.  And so on her turn, she will step forward, like that, and she
will. Let's see, what are her attacks. Oh, I didn't equip her.  Inventory.
Where is there it is corner stuff. Now let's see if that changes the attack
options.  It does, okay. So she's plus four to hit with the staff. Big money,
no whammies.  Oh, good. Yeah, she, uh easily beats the boars a C. Fine.  And
she strikes it for. Oh, that's interesting. What's the difference between?
 Oh, huh? I'm going to go with the lower one, because I don't know why there
are two there. Oh, my goodness.  Okay, so she bonks it right on the head and
it goes down instantly. It is. You right.  Well. She can't She caved in at
skull, just And it's just. I' ready it's not.  It would have lived if it
hadn't been wounded. I can tell you that. And you can kind of see that, too.
 Oh, I need to put her hip point out. wounded boy? No, no, that was the
unwounded one. The wounded one is even weaker.  But. Oh, you should both roll
me perception as you get a closer look at this now downed bore., we just
theanger. The one you just downed.  This one's a little bit away and you don't
have time right now to study it from a distance. Which one do I in? That one,
there should be a perception skill in there.  You can either roll it through
the app or you can use the tower if you like. Okay. D20 for anything that.
 Yeah, it's almost always D20, the exceptions are notably. That's That's good
perception. So 15, you easily notice that it's been scratched or clawed like
it had been pursued and gotten away.  Something attacked them.. Oh, yeah, go
ahead and roll to. And actually, do either of you have survival?  Plus three.
Okay, yeah, roll me your survival. Yeah, yeah, definitely.  I have aival.
Okay, so you don't quite figure anything. Go ahead and roll in your survival
then.  Nice. What's your bonus? You got 20?  Oh, yeah, you're like, "Those are
wolf marks. Wolves have been chasing these boars. There might be wolves in the
area.  Probably. Well, maybe your animal handling role will be higher next
time. Oh, and I didn't know for Sarah, either.  Sarah doesn't notice anything.
She's too engrossed in this in making sure that you're not hurt too badly. Do
I need a roll?  And then I need to, let's see. You saw the. I saw what she
saw.  Yeah, you're good. Let me just check real quick to see what kinds of
actions Sarah's stuff is. Bonus action, lay on hands.  Yes, as a bonus action,
Sarah looking at the bore, holding her staff, puts her hand on your shoulder,
and restores up to the maximum amount remaining in the pool. Oh, so I need to
see what her pool is at. Her pool is at uh, where is her pool?  She's going
heal you. I just don't know how much yet.. Yeah.  L on hands. Here we go.
That's not an armor on, so we should be 13 The armor should get factored into
your armor class.  And it got through the armor. It doesn't So D&D, this is
one of the things I don't like about D&D. It doesn't have like, well, it does,
but I won't get into that right now. It's Starting out, there's no concept of
it hurts you less because you're wearing armor.  It's either it hurts you or
it doesn't. Okay. So the way it's sort of flavored is kind of a if it rolls
under your AC, but it's really close, then it's a glancing blow.  Or it did
hit you, but it didn't hurt you. And if it be or beats your AC, then it got
you bad enough to hurt you.. And then it rolls damage to find out how much it
hurt you.  And as it happens, it max damage. It hits you for the most it
possibly could. That's why it would hurt so much.  I can tell you that because
we're starting out and. That doesn't normally happen. It only happens one
sixth of the time.  Okay, so how much do you heal with a pool, you can restore
a total of, oh, it's one hit point per thing. All right, well, she gives you
back five hit points. Yeah.  What am I? Now you're back to nine. Is that
right?  You started wait, let me make sure you did start at 11. Then small
bean. Hit points.  Oh, no, you started at 800. You were down to one, and now
you're up to six. You all die.  You almost went down. You wouldn't have died
until you' failed three death saves. You down.  Almost went down. right back,
got find someone else? Anybody else here want to go in an adventure? Anyone
will do.  First adventure didn't go so good. Sarah, let's, heel four, five. So
now you're at six.  That's pretty great. Okay, and that is Sarah's turn. Now
the wounded one is terrified.  It was already wounded, and now it's buddy is
dead. It. It struggles to its feet, and moves.  What's that? Five, 10, 50
Yeah, it moves like half of its move speed away. It is is terrified.  It was
already scared, and now it has new enemies as far as it's concerned. It
doesn't know that you don't really want to hurt it.. Good.  Perfect. I keep
track of them over here, too, so that I know that, so I know, when things
happen.. So next is.  Oh, I didn't put your name on there. That was rude.
Longberg. a little because I don't.  Oh, that's true. You can use it to sit on
when you meditate. You don't She's an elf.  It's an elf thing. Instead of
sleeping. It's an elf while I. That's right.  That is absolutely true. Yeah,
instead of sleeping for eight hours, they do a thing called trancing for four
hours. It's kind of cheating, but whatever.  They have others that drawbacks.
Okay, it is your turn. The situation is there is a dead boar in front of you.
 Your new friend has been grievously harmed, but suddenly looking almost
completely better. So you've learned that Sarah can heal at least somewhat.
This one's trying to run away.  What do you want to do?. What are you doing?
You don't have to..  This one's on you. I made a We can let it go, I feel like
the wolves will get it eventually. Maybe it'll leave them away from us.
 That's smart. Do you want to do anything else? Can we see if we can harvest
anything from the car before?  Yeah Absolutely. I'm gonna call that survival.
Very smart.  Yeah, it's going to be survival. It will take you. Yes.  You're
smart guy. In one action, you'll be able to tell what you can get from it.
Okay.  You won't be able to do the act because you only have six seconds per
round. And then. So, yeah, D20 plus your survival.  Okay, 1 plus three or
four. You're not sure. You think maybe if you looked at it some more?  we'll
see. Okay, one, plus one. Yeah, you both are like, well, that was exciting.  I
bet we could get something from this. I don't know what to do with it. So on
her turn, a bean.  Small bean, looks at the board and goes,. You want to do
anything else? I'm letting you have that as a free action.  Can I poke it with
a stick? Do you have a stick on you? You can kick it with your foot. your
finger.  Yeah, you can kick it.. to make sure it's dead. Yeah. Yeah.  That's
true. It's dead. Your foot goes.  It's kind of gross. Uh, Okay, so, oh, I need
to cross out the. Sarah.  Yeah. So, yeah, so Sarah, she's. She seems
apparently.  So, you know from talking with her that she has been on
adventurous. She's not super strong. She's as strong as either of you, but she
has been out and about.  She has been caving, rock. Oh, she rock climbs at
school. She's a graduate student, working for free, of course, because grad
students, for Dr. Jack Atabar, right?  letter. And she also grew up in a farm,
which is where she learned to shoot with a bow, her hunt with a bow. So she
yeah, so that's her her whole deal is that she's got some experience in the
wild and that's how she learned to heal by putting her hand on people and
things like that. it She takes another look at it.  Oh, and she's not feeling
real smart right now. She says, uh. Well, yeah, we could probably get some, I
don't know. hide out of it?  Or maybe those tusks are worth something. And she
begins the process of, oh, what is her survival? Her survival is plus three.
 It wouldn't have made any difference, but so she's going to begin, and you
can help when it comes back to your turn if you want. You chuckle to yourself
as you see her feebly attempt to begin to find a place to start cutting it..
And that will be..  Oh, we did smell bean. We did that. This one runs away
some more.  It's making a lot of noise. But I'm going to have you guys all
roll perception. Perception.  Perception's kind of a big deal in this world
or. Perception. Perception.  Where is it? There is. Oh.  Plus one so 20. Nice.
You're like, did you hear that?.  Yeah, you hear a.. Yeah, they're kind of far
away, but that's the one you hear, the ones that you don't hear might be
closer. You don't know..  And then it is. Songbirds turn, you want to show
Sina how it's done? Oh, and I also need to do one more thing.  Of course. You
said Iowa? Yeah, if you want to whatever you want to do.  Oh, if you want to
help her out, or if you want to like you would now notice her noticing and
also hear that there might be wolves coming. You can You can either pay more
attention to the wolves or pay more attention to the kill. Or anything else
you come up with.  I would suggest we leave the wounded boar and the dead boar
for the wolves, as it means to make our escape before fighting wolves. Smart.
You're gonna completely.  Just kidding. You. When you get higher level, you
can do that.  For sure. Like, technically, if you rolled a, which one of these
is garden?. Okay.  If you roll the 20 on your animal handling, when a wolf
came up, you have a chance of calming it down. I don't know if you'd be able
to pet it, but it might not attack you if you did that. But that's not a high
odds.  Oh, and by the way. I did pick these because of the brand name. All
right.  Yeah, I saw them and I'm like, aww. You hear that, Bubba? Yeah.  We
ever flying a dog in a town. Oh, yeah. That's a good idea.  There's dogs in
town all the time. So yeah, I would like to suggest to that would be.
Sarah's..  You're right, you're right. We shouldn't stay here. Good thinking.
 And she gets up from kneeling. Oh, wait, wait. I got to do this in order.  So
you said that. Do you want to. Oh, you've got plenty of.  No, you want to
leave it behind for bait. That's right. Okay.  So it turns out this is the way
to the Goblin camp, but Sarah says, well, we could take a more roundabout
route. We'll probably want to stay closer to the road, so she'll say you
should go that way. So you've got, let's see, what's your movement?  30? You
get six spaces of movement, not you yet, thunder. Yeah.  Does it mean? Yeah,
and then it'll be thunder. Now you can go.  It comes around to Sarah, and she
goes right along with you guys. And this one keeps going. And now, uh, let's,
what did I move again?  Oh, yeah. And I got this up, too. Just a moment.  I'm
learning so much. Me too. As are not.  There we go. Initiative. That's two.
 Okay. So just after. Okay, so you get to go again.  Songbird. Okay. Is it 20?
 Whatever you want to if you want to keep running. Oh, and you can double
move. I forgot.  You didn't take another action, so you can just move twice
last round. Both all three of you can. So you could do another another six
spaces.  Okay. One, two. But I will say you're starting to hear the wolves,
and you can see the tops of the grass moving fairly close, like over by that
soda can.  Can I do a check to see how many wolves there are? Yeah, that would
be, you know what's that perception survival? I'm going to say it's
perception, because you're just trying to gather data.  511 That works. You
estimate that there are two. You can It's kind of hard to tell but you feel
pretty confident that it's just two right now..  And they're in a hurry, which
is how you're able to perceive them, too. They're not howling, they're just
snuffling and making a ruckus. And you so that was your like you get
perceptions one free action.  Do you want to take any actions or movement at
this point? I. What's the moose speed on? Let's see.  Of course it is. Cass,
the pressed. P the digitation?  Yes. That's an excellent spell. And I would
like to cast it away from us maybe back towards the floor that was killed and
have it be a smell of.  Delicious food, yeah. Delicious, delicious boar. Let
me see what the stats on there.  Sensory effect. Prestidigitation. Okay, what
is the, how do they what's the DC for beating that?  I'm going to say that's
hard to beat. What's your spell DC? I think it's called.  Oh, I can look at
your Never mind, I can see it right here. It is. Well, we'll see who finds it
first. spells, modif, Save DC is 13, so they have to beat 13. to I can't be
right.  I'm going to give you. I'm gonna say it's 15 to order comment. Oh,
okay, well, one of them saw through it. or smelled through it.  The other one
did not. That's That's kind of good, though, in a way. So, um, you will in a
moment see that the rustling grass, part of it goes this way and part of it
starts making a beeline for you.  Okay. That was your action. Do you want to
move at all, or do you want to stay close to your budgies?  I'll stay close.
Okay. All right, that sounds good to me, and then that was on a six on a four.
 The wolves. Four. Wolves.  They are going to be. orange and yellow, and they
have a move speed at 40, so a double move of 80, which is 16 squares.. I like,
you to be like you, a spell or something, yeah. goes that way? goes that.
 That's their term. You can now easily see them as they have burst out of the
high grass into the low grass area that you're in. They are clearly unharmed,
they do have.  No, you can't see that yet. Actually, I'll let you guys roll an
out of turn perception to find out if you can see any more about them.. All
right.  So the songbird notices blood on their paws, only the front paws.. Oh,
God, 20? Yeah, you easily can see that these are almost certainly the very
wolves that attack these two.  And somehow these two got away. Nobody knows.
Somebody rolled a one.  Somebody rolled a 20. Next thing you know, there's a
pig in a blanket. No..  Now it is to small Bean. Small bean, there is one wolf
headed towards the pig body, the boar body, and one headed right for you
three. It hasn't picked which one it wants to go at most..  That's the orange,
yeah, token. Oh, I need F. It is those are five feet each. The squares.
 What's that? 30 feet. That's, 10 It's a little over 30 feet, yeah..  Oh, I
should tell you that diagonals, since we're not on a hex grid, diagonal goes
with the one and a 1/2 rule, where it's one, two, three, 4, 5, six. You need
to watch to see. So, this one's gone.  So it's going to move 30 feet, 5, 10,
15, 20, 25, 30. So every other time that goes diagonally, it counts as two..
So this is.  So 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, yeah, 40 feet away from you. Okay.
And it's moving fast enough that you think it could get here in your next
turn.  I would a magic to like do a magic missile? Magic missile automatically
hits, if I'm not mistaken. Let's see.  My Oh, yeah, it's in range, all right.
Let's see here. Spells, magic missile.  You create three glowing darts. Each
dart strikes a creature of your choice that you can see within range, a dart
deals force damage. They all strike simultaneously, and you can direct them to
hit one creature or several.  They don't get a save or anything. You just do
that. But it doesn't kill them do It does damage to them.  You're gonna roll
roll a four sided die three times. If you want to send them all to the same
wolf, which at the moment seems like the best thing. Yeah.  'Cause that one's
gonna take more than one turn. The yellow one's gonna take more than one turn
to. Well, we get another chance to figure out if it's a ruse.  That's a four.
Good. That's two, six.  And two makes 8 plus three because each of those was
plus one, is 11. And the hit point of is 11. So you killed that one.  It was
probably just about to leap, because, you know, that's more dramatic. I had to
do my car And you're like, pew, pew, pew! And these three bolts just fire off
and just right in the air, and it just tumbles.  And it's it's down. You'd
have to look closer to see if it was dead, but it's down. I need to put down
in my notes, though.  Wolf. Orange. What's 11 now zero. and that was a small
B. And do you want to also move or take a bonus action?  I don't know what
your bonus action options are. Let's see, Actions. Do not seem to have.  Oh,
wait, bonus actions are on their own thing. Any sorcery twice prolonged rest?
No.  Take a bonus action to unleash the simmering magic within you for one
minute. All right, I'll read about that later. I don't know what that means.
 Oh, that probably gets you more spell slots. Oh, so you used your one. Let's
see, how many spell slots do you have spells?  You have. Okay, you've used one
of your two level one spell slots. You can cast burning hands one more time
before your next rest.  Um. Yeah, so I don't know. It doesn't look like you
have a bonus action that's relevant here.  You can move or stay where you are.
I suppose we should probably move. Which direction would you like to move
that?  30 feet now. Uh. I it's gonna keep going half feet..  So over there.
About 10, Yep.. And then, oh, I can cross it.  Oh, now, it's not going to be
part of this battle anymore. Hmm? And then Sarah., let's see.  She doesn't
think these wolves are so tough. She's having a moment of hubris. She drops
her quarter staff on the ground, unslings her bow, pulls out an arrow, sights.
 We'll see if she gets.. What's her. Let's see, action, the wrong character.
 Seraphina, Actions,tack. Oh, I didn't equip her bow. B, inventory, short bow.
 And we go back to actions, tack, plus three. Okay, yeah, that's., I didn't
even need to look that up. All right, so she easily hits it and does...  Not
very much damage. And what was it? But it's definitely hurt.  It's thinking
twice about its life choices. It's orange, wolf, yellow. And you're probably
thinking, why did you distract it?  It was already distracted. You didn't need
to do that. Mostly She has not worked with other adventurers before.  She's.
She's always been the best adventurer on every thing she's been. She also
hasn't gone on anything this hardcore before.  Yeah. Most of her trips are
entirely.. Oh, shoot, I've forgotten the word..  Anthropological. She's
visiting, uh cultures, communities to learn about them. She's going to
archaeological digs, not to do any digging, but just to see what kinds of pots
they're finding, that sort of thing.  What sort of temples. But she did do
free damage. takes that down a little bit and then she nervously steps back
and stays close to small being, and that's her. The wolf, utterly confused by
this, now has to decide whether to go..  There here after you shot at you.
You'll be fine. You're a handsome young man.  You'll be fine. Let's see. So
the boar boar, the wolf, it still thinks there's food there, but also it just
got shot, so now has to evaluate whether to attack or run.  You outnumber it.
I'm going to give it. I'm going to call this a wisdom check.  It turns around
and starts heading in the other direction. Yeah, if he could move that token
diagonally about about to that can, where it came from, the can of soda, yeah.
It has just been like, holy crap.  And you can see that, as it goes through
into the grass, you can see her arrow, like wiggling and she's like, oh, I'm
never going to get that back.. I don't know what happened, but I'm freaking
out of here. I need to mark that aer spent.  Inventory. Same. That's cute.
 Arows, I need to change that to be minus one arrow. Oh, I need to equip
those. And then minus one.  There we go. Okay. And then.  That was the wolf.
Oh, now, I'm gonna have you guys roll. Actually, I have to roll for somebody
you don't see yet.  Oh. You don't know if they're friend or foe. What you
think?  Nothing yet. I've got to figure out what I'm rolling here.. What if it
is?  Yeah.. Oh, actually, I need to look up. I think it's Am I right in
thinking?  Oh, no, it's Is it this one? Yeah, it's not that one. No, I'.
 Yeah, true. There it is. Okay, it has where's perception.  Oh, interesting.
There's just perception. Okay, um, I think here. you?  You guys can get off
easy. This is stupid. Um..  You, uh Go ahead and give me perception checks and
I'll roll for a second me too.ction checks. Okay, Sapine is completely
oblivious.7. Okay, yeah, you're going to see it. low.  Okay, so. Small being
Small beings looking back and she says, oh, wow, look at that, as a giant
vulture goes swooping down towards the running away wolf. Oh, my God.  Yeah.
That's going to be next turn. Oh, I should probably roll initiative for the
vulture too.  Oh, interesting. What's it initiative bonus? Zero.  Okay, well.
Oh, it goes next. Although it doesn't matter because it's not paying attention
to you guys, but I'll go ahead and mark it down, just to be thorough and get
practice and stuff.  And that is Vulture. Its name is Creepy Dave. Creepy
Dave, I'm Creepy Dave.  That's my T shirt. Yeah. It's like this.  It's a. It's
a Z Frank thing. Okay.  Um, no, Z Frank, not Aretha Franklin. All right. Uh It
is now back to Small Bean There's, I mean, this one's gone.  It's out of
there. It's not. It's not going to stop.  Well, actually, God, it's it's so
hurt. Well, it doesn't matter. What do I go yet?  Oh, you should have gone,
yeah. It was right before the Vultures's turn. It's your turn.  Okay, so what
was the? She points Smallv points out the vulture and you see it swooping down
towards the yellow token. The birds like, I don't know, hovering over your
table, like over the dy tray or something, and it's on its way down.  You get
the w To get the wolf. It's huge. It's much scarier than any of the stuff
you've seen before.  Like, if you had to put a number on it, you'd say it's
four times scarier than A, pig and twice as scary as a wolf. Roughly. So then
I get to..  You can keep running or you can stand and watch or you can
interfere or. You can write a song about it. R a song about it like a hear,
here go.  I want to. Mm hmm. I just want to make sure nothing else.  You all
the threats are coming from divorce came from here and wolves came from here,
and now the vulture coming from here. I want to make sure that nothing is
coming after us. Yeah.  So I'm going to cast silent image and it's a 15 foot
cube, so I'm going to make the biggest wolf I can. Smart. And have it face
away from me towards the vulture and the other wolves.  Let me look at the
songbird spells. silent image. Very nice. What does it say?  image. Here's a
spot within range and lasts for the duration, which is 10 minutes. Nice.
 Purely visual, that's fine. Nice, that's a great spell. And your spell, DC
13, but I think for something like this, it's a lot harder to see through
something like that.  Especially because it gets dispelled if they touch it.
So I'm going to say that there all of the creatures within inside of this
thing are completely convinced that a wolf they didn't see before, that's
bigger than either of the other two, they did one or the running one. huge
thing. D wolf, probably.  Yeah. Just appeared and it's looking menacing in
that direction. Do you want to move closer to?  I don't move. Yeah. And
then...  The vulture is mid swoop and it might not notice, since it's not
making a noise and it's totally focused on that. So I'm going to give it a,
two... I'm used to it being a really obvious result, not being right on the
line.  Okay, so it does notice, and it seeing that that's a wolf and the thing
you made up here as a wolf, it decides to bolt. And instead of going for the
running wolf, it just goes off into the distance, and it's got to fly speed,
so it's gone. That vulture is gone, and that wolf is running, that one's dead,
that's dead, that one's running.  You have no more threats anymore. You have
beaten this encounter. Oh, nice.  I can make big wolves. Perfect timing, too.
It's 410, which means it's like midway through. the session.  Any anything?
Um, probably. I'm all excited now, so...  Yeah, let's keep going. I've got
Snickers here for. I'm want to finish this.  Yeah, it's already. It's already?
Yeah. full work.  Okay. We just pulled pork. Yeah.  Yep. Don't worry, it won't
go to waste the circle of life continues. The turns are over.  You are now
back to do whatever you want mode. Sfina. says, well, that that went well. I
think we can safely take the direct route to the Goblin hideout.  Unless
either of you have anything else you want to do before we set off. I need to
chill.. You want to take a.. a short rest?  No. Oh, but. Yeah.  That's what I
meant. Yeah, does, do you want Does your character, does Small Deanan want to
take a short rest? No, but Okay.  I don't need to do anything else. Okay.
Yeah, that sounds wise to me. impress.  Well, also your wanting to get into
fights and you might not easier into. Yeah, And Songberg, they set a
statement. That's a very fair point.  Handsome young man. In our defenses,
it's easy to get sucked into the moment. He's the moment, it's.  It's so cute,
you know? Yeah. That's my character.  That's all right. No, he's right. He's
completely right.  A fight you don't fight is one that you can't be defeated
in. Or something like that. Okay, so let's go ahead and move on Yeah.  Just
move to wherever and not. see, I think I got wipes for that, didn't I? You
know? Maybe I didn't.  I guess I didn't get wipes. You have like a paper
towel. Yes.  Oh, wait, no, it came with. Where did I put them? Oh, on the
other side.  Oh, yeah, that's it. It came with eraser. Oh, that's what I was
looking for.  All right. Check. Let's start weight on my shoulder.  Th's on my
line. falls behind. T me. Oh...  Help it from oxid. Yeah, it tastes good.
Yeah.  I don't think anybody needs a bone breaker or anything, probably good
time. Okay, me neither. We killed more the more.  It is pretty great.. And you
would get if they were doing experience points, which were not because we're
doing the other systems when you get to a point level up. If we were doing
experience points, you would have gotten experience for all of that because
that's how these things work, you..  No. But you're going to level up soon.
Because you're leveling upt doing things that are outside your comfort zone,
new or that kind of thing.  And you are absolutely doing that. I I am I don't
think any of you, any of the three of you, are in your comfort zone right now.
I don't If you were to.  I don't. What? You are small..  Okay. And I will be
writing songs forever. Oh, yes.  Please do. Sarah will appreciate that. One,
two, four, two,.  And so. Oh, I should get my. thing. So we enter montage mode
where you are tromping again through the grass, being perhaps a little more
cautious on the lookout for wildlife, maybe.  But after not too long, you
begin to see smoke in the distance and Sarah seems to get a little bit more
chipper. She's looking forward to meeting the goblins again. It's her thing.
 It's her passion is other cultures. And finding out they're different from
how people thought, what's going on behind me?. Oh, that's a neat toy.  Thank
you. It's great. He's very happy to show I love it.  It's a great toy. You
should be so proud. All right.  He really was. Just look at my toy. It's Dogs
are crazy.  I love them. Okay, and oh, I go go back to my notes. Stay here.
 No, buddy. And you continue towards the smoke, and it gradually becomes a
wall of sorts, you know, of wooden posts sticking up with sharpened points and
and you getting a little closer and you can actually see that there are
creatures of some sort at the top of the wall, just kind of ambling around,
looking around and you get a little closer, and you see that actually there's
a gate facing you in the wall. You're getting a little closer and closer, and
you start to see that the creatures are goblins.  And they're carrying bows
and spears and things like that. It doesn't look like they're real on guard.
They're They're chilling.  And as you get closer still, you see that the gate
is partway open. You know, like like a like this.. And as you get closer, you
see that there's a goblin standing in the middle between the two gate doors.
 And as you get closer, still, he starts waving. And Sarrafina starts waving.
And then she starts running and he starts running forward.  And. And I have to
bring up his character sheet, because I've forgotten things. Under.  Oh,
right. I didn't put him in the campaign because I wanted to him a secret. My
characters and Sarah calls out Sonic and the one you assume to be Sonic calls
out Sarah I need to add you to a campaign.  How do I add you to a campaign?.
Thunder Mountain, where is the Hmm? And he comes running forward and all the
goblins you've ever seen.  Oh, no, you nose on it. That's right, because he
comes to town. You're like, oh, that guy., this is where.  He's that Weird of
Goblin who has perfect common where most goblins speak broken common, if at
all, common being the equivalent of English in this rule.. And. And they
embrace, and you know, he's shorter than her, so she just twirlles him around.
 They're clearly good friends. And then they immediately start doing that
thing when friends meet again after it's been a while where they start talking
and talking and talking, and it's just, even though they write each other and
stuff, but and you guys here, let's... I actually have..  Oh, right, I have I
forgot that I had a figure for Serapfina that we could have been using this
whole time. That is not what she looks like per se, but it'll do. And funnic.
 Wow! What is this? Is this?  Yeah. Well, for now, until I get a better one.
bone. Yeah.  Yeah. It's not, I mean, she needs to have her staff and very
carefully. Fock is. hair, brush.  Um, kind of, yeah, like three hairs. It
depends. There's all kinds of clever tools they can use.  None of these look
right. I'll just use this one, because it's the least menacing. Thic is not an
imposing creature.  In fact, you can see now as you get closer. Where is he?
There we go.  He's a slightly tall for a goblin. Yeah, you guys are pretty
close, actually. You're about the same size, I think. background?  No.
appearance. Oh, I didn't put the appearance in here. Ah, that's fine.  Uh,
He's gray colored, like, oh, there's the skin. Like the mountains in the area,
actually. And you'll notice that most of the goblins in this camp are the same
color.  Maybe it's like a family thing or something. There he is. Yes..  I'm
not actually gonna have more combat anytime soon, so I can you guys can relax
a little bit. I told you a secret. Oh, good.  I'm sorry. Don't relax. Be on
guard.  Uh. And he says, oh, and who are these? Oh, small, Long time to see.
 It's been at least a couple of weeks since I've been in town, he says to you,
while you're staring at your phone. You're being addressed by a very well
spoken godlin whom you know.. G?  You know him as Athenic. His full name is
Cragmoth Thunic, Cragmaw being the family name of the entire tribe.. And he
says, sir, what's going on?"  And Sarah says, oh, so I met these two in town,
and Songbird here. Oh, Songbird, this is Sonic, Sonic, the songbird. The
Songbird.  I say hello in I don't even know if I have to roll for that. Are
you trying to make any particular impression? Is there some sort of.  Are you
trying to. I'm trying to impress or impress, but at some point about the trump
if they know about it. Okay.  But your purpose in addressing him in Goblin is
to be friendly and okay, great. He will, his face lights up and he responds in
goblin, oh, you speak our language.. It's a pleasure to meet another
individual of refined tastes and intelligence, he says.  And he actually says
all of this very, like, eloquently, both in Goblin, when he speaks in Gblin
and in common, he speaks well. He doesn't stammer like me or stumble over his
words.. And, let's see, I'm actually going to.  He. Oh, you get the impression
that he's trying to impress you guys, and it's not working. You're like..
 He's not. He must be distracted. Maybe it's because of Sarah..  And she says,
Anyway, we're we met in town, and I was coming here, of course, as you know,
but the songbird told me that he's looking for a magical trumpet that he heard
might be in the treasure, in the way of Echo Cave, and God, I keep forgetting
my own character's name. Andic, says, so his expression gets a little darker.
He's the very mention of the Wave Echo Cave kind of puts him on guard and he
says, "Yeah, and.  And you're like, "That wasn't very eloquent. And she says,
well, I mean, I just thought we might take a look, and he's like, "S. I know,
I know. It's not the wisest.  We don't have to go all the way in. We can at
least just take a look and see what the situation is. And he says, I'm not
going to let you go.  Look, come inside. And he ushers you all the in and the
gates close behind you. big camp of goblins, not nearly as rowdy as you've
heard.. They're curious about the new visitors.  They they see that Tunics got
you guys, like, he's escorting you, and.. Oh, yeah, let's have you guys
rollight. Insight?  Yeah, Insight is sort of how you get a little bit of extra
information out of. Okay. Very nice.  You notice a mixed reaction of some sort
of interested and some skeptical and some hungry. There's definitely a sense
that they some of them wonder why you guys aren't bound up, why you're not on
a rope tied up and being led towards your cages. But you can tell from Sunic
that that's not going to happen.  There's just no chance of that. He's. They
are clearly in deference to him.  They recognize him as one of the higher up
in the chain, and they wouldn't dare cross him. It leads you to the center of
camp, where there's a big building, and it leads you in. to a gathering area,
which currently contains. Sorry.  There's a an older goblin, not old, old, but
not a kid, with some scarring, sitting in a chair, facing a fire pit. There's
a fire pit in this round room, and there's one chair that's clearly the well,
chief, and next to him, there's a much older female goblin, and on his other
side, a fierce looking male goblin, who eyes you suspiciously. Where is my
list of names?  Unbelievable. I thought I had this all figured out. Oh, yeah,
I have a thing over here.  No, that's not it. Thing over here tells me
everything I need, right? No.  Sorry, guys. No, Unbelievable. That must be
over here then.  Note to Claude, we need to organize the planning better for
next time. Oh, I don't have. So I I had the brilliant idea of having a link to
all of the townspeople, because they're all in the wiki, the fandom wiki for
this world.  And so I had links to them in case you decided, I want to talk to
the other people in town. I'd be like, "Okay. and I would have that handy. I
didn't organize this well enough for me to quickly jump from one place to
another.  So very good question, because that will help me for next time to
figure out what I'm doing. Here we go. Camera swoops in.  Okay, that was that
part. Where are the names? Scroll up, scroll up.  There we go. There are some
names. Oops, wait.  What? Yes. So..  Fune on entering the room, bows and says,
"Cragma Sunic to see to introduce visitors to the chief, and the chief nods
silently. And Tunic leads you in and says, "Here, have a seat, have a seat.s
like a dirt floor. And he says, Chief Cragmile Craig Hammer, I introduce in
the gestures you Smallbean, whom you have heard me speak of before, the
songbird, who is an entertainer who has deigned to join us this evening.  And
Sfina, whom you already know, of course. And chief nods. And then it goes on,
says, "These are a new jesures to the older female goblin.Cragmotheragmothule,
my mentor, and then he gestures to the fierce one.  "Wor Cragmaw of Ash. And,
there's. a younger goblin off in a corner, kind of wide eyed and watching. And
Tic looks at him and says, "That's Greek."  And he sighs, and Greek grins.
And. Elder Thul looks you over and says, "Welcome to our.  Where would she
call it? Welcome to our home. We, I hope you are hungry.  We have a feast not
long from now. We would love for you to stay, rest before whatever you have
going on next. And Sarah, says, "Thank you, Elder Thool.  That's kind as
always. And, um the the warrior Narrows his eyes a little bit, and Sar
says,Oh, Cragmoth wool. Excuse me."  And then the warrior relaxes a little
bit.. And Der Thle says to you three, uh, what brings you? Two our humble,
camp. and Sarah looks over at you and you want to ask him about the thing?  I
want to. speak in Duplin? I want to see if the mood is right to ask about it
yet. Insight.  Or if I want to Or if you want to just be polite and stuff. be
polite and play off. Until you know what's going on? I want to offend anyone
Yeah, that's smart.  Yeah, go ahead and roll insight. You're good. The
threshold was eight.  I was gonna give you a chance to fuck it up, but. Your
impression of the mood is that the chief is just enjoying a nice day by the
fire.. The warrior is always uptight.  Yeah. And the elder is at ease and
genuinely welcoming. These are very strange goblins.  You've met goblins
before, I think. Probably mostly ambushes. They've probably attacked you as
you've been on the road.  Yeah. You've never seen them be polite before. It's
weird.  And the ones outside weren't all polite. They were There were some who
thought they could get away with it that were throwing jeers that were like
saying, why aren't they tied up? And stuff like that.  Um. In fact, I think I
have a note in here about one of the ridiculous things one says, oh, yeah,
yeah, yeah. Well, Before you'd met the chief, somebody said, "Why aren't we
capturing them?  Nobody would know." Thunk. Ow!  So they're sort of
disagreement in the camp about how they feel about nongobblins, but there's
clearly. They're working in the direction of more diplomatic relationships
with nongoblins.. What I have some high, history, good.m going have some,
maybe I haven't seen these types of goles in person.  Maybe I've heard of
them. You read the book. And I to read the book.  You read the book. You both
read the book, so you guys know about the tribe, but you didn't, the book did
not convey the depth and breadth of this. Jack summarized it for a lay
audience.  He His goal with all of his publications is to combine academic and
popular content so that the people who aren't yet familiar with this stuff
will get exposure to what is possible and the people who are academic will
also get to see a little bit of what regular people expect out of their
literature. They get they're forced to be humanized in a sense, although not
human human, but, you know, personized.. Let's see.  So yeah, your impression
is that you would not offend anyone by asking about your own personal quest,
because they did just ask you what you're doing. So you're welcome to tell
them.. And you can speak in common or goblin or any other language you know.
 I think I would say it in, do they speak common? So far, the chief has said
nothing. Thul, I did a bad job of representing a speaking common badly.  The
warrior hasn't said anything, and the kid in the corner hasn't said anything.
or whatever? Yeah, G. That's what it was. I would keep it light and offer to
play a song of Goblin nature at the Feast if they would allow them.  And maybe
subtly mention the... Yeah. input it that way. So Thul will speak for the rest
because she's the only one who speaks from.  Except for, of course, Sarah's
friend. And she actually will in goblin. Oh, wait, let's see.  So you. Did you
speak in goblin? I forget.  How do you speak. Yeah. This time?  Yeah. Yeah,
okay. She says, oh, your goblin is quite good.  I forget what they actually
call their language. They don't call it goblin any more than we call our
language as human. She says.  A performance would be most stimulating. and uh.
And she looks at the chief and says, "We don't have anything else going on, do
we?" And he says in Goblin, "I don't know.  He looks tired. He's not all that
old, but something has been weighing on him, wearing him down. Maybe.  There's
a lot. heavy is the head that wears the crown, as they say.s that guy.. Now
that you've spoken goblin, the warrior will say, "And he's gonna roll
intimidation on this, actually. Oh, you are not impressed at all.  You rolled
at one... Now, these things don't stand very well on their sides. That's
interesting.  I need to notice that, because that means this is not a fair
die. God damn it. I need to get less fancy dice.  Yeah. Thanks. So, uh, he
says in a not at all intimidating way, just watch yourselves."  Don't try
anything funny. You know, that kind of nonsense. And the chief, you can see
he's amused.  He's kind of laughing at the warrior because the warrior is
trying to be fierce and utterly failing. And you get the impression this is
something that happens a lot. And the warrior's not really like, he's probably
a really good warrior, but he's not good at social stuff at all.  Oh, my God.
I'm trying to not break this, but. Oh, there we go.  As soon as you said that,
I did not break it. Um. I don't need to roll again right now, but put those
there for later.  Okay, and I guess I'll put this away Away, where you go. Um,
there's my other die. And she says, um, "ain in goblin, trumpet, huh?  I
didn't remember something. Was it a trumpet? Some kind of wind instrument?  I
think it was a flute. No. He's kind of wandering off and Tul says, "Well, in
any case, we'll talk and see if we can recall.  I am the keeper of secrets and
I will review my notes in my yurt. and get back to you on that. In the
meantime, soon a go ahead and show our guests to their lodgings and meet us in
the dining hall, or dining tent, I should say. And yeah, so Tunik takes you
guys to a guest tent that's smaller than this room, but big enough to
comfortably house the three of you without making it close to each other or
anything.  And he says, " thisis is where you'll be spending the night if
that's okay with you. great. And'll have some blankets for you before dinner's
over. And if you'll come with me this way, I'll show you the dining tent..
 Leads you on and. You could sort of see that there's sort of a flow of
gobblins towards the direction you're going,'cause it's dinnerinnertime. The
goblin the dining tent is surprisingly well engineered.  Gobblins aren't known
for their engineering. The big building that contained the chief was just
native extra material to keep it from just if it didn't stay up, they stuck
more stuff on it. Kerbal space program style needs more struts.  And but the
tent has got some clever thing going with poles stuck in the dirt at angles
and some guy wires and really clever use of materials and that sort of thing.
You guys come forward and come through the opening. It smells bizarre.  You
might say delicious or you might not, depending on what you're into, but it's
not. It's goblin food. It's not regular food..  Uh. Sunic brings you around
to. It's not organized like you would expect from, like Knights of the Round
Table sort of situation.  It's kind of chaotic, but one of the tables is a
little bit nicer than the rest, and he sits you at that. And he takes a seat,
too. And so the four of you now are half of a do you call it round Table would
be a disservice to circles.  It's a table. It's, you know, you know what it
looks like? It looks like they took a really old tree that had been in a fire,
and they cut it and then cut a slice off and turned that into the top of a
table.  So it's got like a part like this that's all scarred and' charred. And
it's kind of like a painter's palette. Except as a table.  Yeah. It's clearly
been in use for a long time. It did not recently get made or anything.  And
it's hard to say whether it was goblin made either, you know? They do make
things, but also they steal things. Or not steal.  What did What did Qad call
it? They do that thing where they they barter. It's It's barter without
consent, nonconsensual barter.  Yeah. That's it. So they just leave behind
what they think it's worth and.  Yeah. So that happens sometimes. Anyway.  So
How are we doing on time? I gotta be careful here. I'm running low.  All
right.. The chief F and the warrior who was named you are introduced to him as
he's not important. Don't worry about it.  He's... Yeah. He was there for
reasons that don't matter anymore.  Um. That was a accidental look behind the
screen, as it were. They come up and as soon as the chief sits down, food
starts coming out.  It was all really just being prepared in a corner of the
tent. There's not a separate kitchen or anything like that. It's just open
fires, stuff on spits, pots of who knows what, and they're just bringing it
all out to the chief first, of course, 'cause there is a hierarchy in this
camp.  And, you know, everybody waits, nobody eats before the chief. They
place a little bit of everything in front of you, andic says,You don't have to
eat anything. Goblin food isn't acquired taste.  I'll understand if you prefer
to have something else, I can help you out with that, too, if you like, or if
you've got your own rations, nobody will be offended. A lot of us think our
food's better and that the others, the other species just aren't cool enough
to enjoy our food. So you definitely won't offend anyone.  And as soon as he's
done saying that, he hungrily dives into his food, he practically smashes his
face into his bowl of whatever. Making a big old mess. And Sarah laughs and
starts daintily sipping her bowl of whatever.  And yeah,'s it's it's a
situation you can, you know, eat, you can talk. I eat.. You don't even have to
roll constitution because it's not poisoned.  Oh. I'll eat it. Yeah.  Yeah. If
I don't like the smell of something, but the texture's okay, can I subtly cast
the prestity? Pressed digitation, you may.  You can cast it every six seconds.
So I make the food smell like something I would normally eat, and then I eat
it to use it. So it smells like pour.  There you go. Thank you love it. And
mostly.  So I eat it the same way the Glin. Nice. You actually get some nods
of approval and smiles from other tables.  'Cause everybody's watching you
guys to see see if you make a mistake, to see if you do anything interesting.
Some of them are inoring you completely, some of them are fascinated, and you
get some nods of approval and some chuckles and things like that. I think
they're also impressed with small being just not without a thought, just come.
 Yeah, I have noaction. It is. It is..  It's a little undercooked. and
overseasoned, I would say, but the seasons that they use are not seasons that
you would normally use. This is stuff from the field that people that you know
would consider to be not for seasoning. fire to my food a little. Yeah.
 That's a cantrip, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah, you can do that every six seconds
too.  Wear small beans. Well, you already said this. smell better if you cook
mine for me. There you go.  Between the two of you, yeah. Oh, no, Burning
Hands is the first level spell, but since you're not using it in combat, I'll
let you have it. No.  Normally, you don't get to do that twice, well, any
first level spelled, you get to cast them currently at level one. Twice per
long rest.? Yeah, well, technically, but since you're not using in a combat
context, it it's not going to change the course of the story.  It's just
flavored. So, yeah, you can always do that. roll to see what go to see Yes,
that would be. Are you.  I'm just like nonchalantly like, That would be if you
have an intent, if you intend to impress them, I think that would be
performance. If you have something you want from them, it's persuasion, if you
want them to fear you, or anything like that, that's intimidation, which I see
you. Go for it.  I've been. You have been, but you are fierce and they don't
People don't even know. He hasn't even seen you today.  Yeah. And then you're
gonna be adding four to I see, which is nice.. So, did you roll another one?
 Yeah. These dice are cursed. Tell you what, I'lin.  That's true. I'm going to
let you roll with advantage, which means you get to roll twice and take the
higher number. And I'm doing that as a circumstantial thing the circumstances
are favorable for you..  Okay, yes. So the warrior goes,oh. He's intimidated.
 He is actually intimidated. He's got a little bit of that parachute pucker
going on. Is this parachute going to deploy or not?..  And others are like,
woo hoo, clap, clap, clap. And so on. So we' at least impressed the crowd.
 You could if you want to know more, I have you roll an insight and I'll give
you a deeper understanding of all of the impressions you've made. Then, do we
want a deeper understanding of the impressions? Yeah, just know that when I
start singing, it's Oh, yeah, that's going to be coming up too.  I have got
I've got 42 minutes left. Okay, that means I don't have enough time for the
cliffhanger. Oh, no.  That's all right. We can have a super mellow thing. Uh,
that's fine.  Um. Oh, no, I know how I can deal with that. Okay.  So, yeah, go
ahead and roll me your insight, and let's see. What? Oh, yeah.  14 37? Nice.
Uh, yeah, looking around, Thul is impressed that with the nonchalantness, she
likes that you were subtle, that you weren't showy, like the warrior is every
day.  She saw that you stumbled a little bit, but caught yourself and nobody
else saw. The chief has seen it all, and just sort of nods appreciatively. The
young goblin has also a gri is..  Rick, my God! His eyes are wide, and he
wants to know how you do that, but he's not saying anything yet, because he's
too shy.. Sunic, says, oh, wow.  That's clever. Um But also, he looks like
he's a little bit more guarded, because somehow in the year or so that he's
known you, he hadn't really seen you... do something quite like that. He knew
you had Burning hands, becauseause word gets around, you know, that weird elf.
 I once saw her light a fire with her hands. And he's smart enough to know
about different spells, and it's a common spell and so on. But around the rest
of the tables, there is a subtle shift in the mood where they're not thinking
about whether they could get away with capturing you anymore.  The ones who
were thinking that. And the ones who weren't thinking of that are really glad
that they're not thinking that. It's, yeah, you have you've increased your
safety.  You were already safe, but you have absolutely increased your safety.
Oh, the rest of the of our song.. Because now it seems like we are..  You're
doing great. Yeah, you're impressing the goblin camp, and that is not a bad
thing, because they run Bartertown. No, they run this grass field.  Um. And,
uh, oh, and I imagine during the dinner you would also have, while, Sarah, at
the very least, would have relayed what she saw of the boar, the Boar's Wolds
and Vulture, and they would have Thul would have taken that in as intelligence
about the battlefield. And the warrior would begrudgingly acknowledge your
guys's competence at not being torn to shreds by a giant vulture.  He couldn't
handle that, not on his own anyway. A whole bunch of goblins, yes, but one
goblin against a giant vulture, not a chance. They're scared of them.  Anyway,
Thul sees that you're done eating and says, Mr's. Songbird, would you. And
this is again in Goblin, because she loves that she can speak in goblin with
you.  Are you ready to perform for us? There's a raised area over there so
that more of us can see and hear you. Yes.  Seek out and based on my history
and knowledge of gobbling. You're gonna roll with the advantage. I have an
advantage and I in a way that I know that they like.  Very nice play a song.
This is going to be performance, of course. Is there a single sort of message
or impression you're trying to make or send or anything?  Oh. Or are you just
trying to say, I'm cool. Or maybe Or solicit information about the trumpet.
 Yeah, I could do that. Or I at the end of it, I can say something like this
will be it's more appropriate to play this song with a trumpet. Nice.  But if
I only had a trumpet. You know, I ever found that trumpet I would come back
and play it for you guys. Plus one trumpet of whatever it does.  So the song
could be song could be about the maybe in gooblin about the battle that we
just had. Yeah, yeah, that's perfect, because that's exactly what they would
do. We used a trick to get.  Yes.. They do. They love tricks.  You use two
tricks. You use preidigitation on the corpse and you use that 15 foot. They're
going to be super impressed.  All right, go ahead and roll.. And remember to
roll twice. Three.  Not good. Four. Yeah you go. 14 plus.  I don't have your
page up. 17. You get rounds of bigger applause.  They're just. This is the
most gobbiny thing they've ever heard from a nongbblin in a long time. Sarah's
never this cool.  Sarah's all books, books, books, writing, writing, writing.
Yeah, she'll talk and gobblin with them, but she's not entertaining, and you
are entertaining, your goblin is really good somehow. They're curious how how
you now your dialect's a little different from their, or your accent, but they
find it mysterious and exotic and that some of the female goblins are kind of
giving you the eye.  They're only about this big, but, you know. Exactly.
Exactly.  I've got a mission. Oh, my God. I'm going to go ahead and say D&D is
problematic.  Yeah. Goblins officially, canonically mature at the age of
eight. Yeah, and they'd live to be 60.  If they're not, you know, killed in
combat or something. Not Yeah, a lot of them do die in the. They have the sort
of this is in general, not the Cragm necessarily, but goblins across the land
have a quantity versus quality.  They'll a quantity more than quality. If
they're going to attack something, they'll attack in huge numbers, and if it
goes badly, they'll run away in huge numbers.. Yeah, they are highly impressed
with both of you, and they see now why you're tagging along with Sfina,
because they already knew that from Thunik talking about Jack and Sfina, they
knew what was going on with them.  They don't understand. Most of them don't
understand why Jack and Sfina are pursuing the research that they're pursuing,
but they liked that the subject, they liked being. They liked telling their
stories and they like being the center of attention.  And so those two are
popular, and then you guys come in, she's terrifying. They now know that she
is a bundle of chaos. just waiting to explode on the seam. And you are
incredibly polite, well spoken, and a fantastic entertainer.  So you've made a
huge impression. Some of them want to talk, some of them like approaching and
talking at you and goblin. Do small beans eat goblin?  I forget. No. Okay.
 Dorovish. Okay.. But yeah, so the night continues.  You have a great time.
You can hang out as long as you want. There's drinks, there's food.  You can
make them all palatable, Eventually, you'll retire to your tents. Is there
anything else you want to do before the end of the night? It Just a courtesy
question.  I don't have anything planned. No, I don't think so. Okay.  It's a
good night. Thank you. I say thank you, or whatever would be traditional if
they say thank you or not.  He says items sleep, I would like to know where
good at like for you. Oh, yeah.. Let me hope do you need?  Yeah, I asked his
favorite. Greg is so excited. You're go.  Except Rick doesn't speak common
very well yet. But he kind of can get the gist. You, me.  And it's. See? far?
 Oh, yeah. And then you translate and Sarah can help translate too. And so,
yeah, so the two of you, G and Smallbeing, two small creatures, a small elf,
and an even smaller goblin, Taughteroff to the walls, and he shows you how to
climb the ladders, to get up on the wall, and it shows you the one slightly
elevated part of the wall that they use for looking out. and it can actually
see all the way around 360 degrees in the So from the, let's see, which way do
we want let this being north.  So from the west, it's just plains off into the
horizon. And you know from knowledge of the area that it's ocean eventually.
As you turn counterclockwise, you can see the Sword Mountains jutting up in
the horizon.  They're close enough that you can they're not misty at all.
They're definitely close ish. And then continuing to turn to the east, you see
where the I've forgotten what it's called already, but the road that runs east
and west, you can see where it cuts through between the mountains and the
forest.  And then you can see the dense trees of the forest and then I have to
look at the map to remember what the other areas look like. Here we go. That's
the Never Winter Wood, this the forest.  And then you come back around to the
west again, and it's just the plains. Did you have any particular things you
wanted to look for, or you just want a Vista? I just want a vista, it while.
 It's, I got to roll to seelet the time of the month it is whether there's a
moon or not. Let's see, I'll roll on a D12 so I can get a. Okay, so that would
be, it's a waning moon.  It's a slightly less than half, but you've got enough
light that you can actually see,'cause your eyesjust. Oh, you've got dark
vision anyway, I think. Yeah, so you see easily And you can see you can see
that the goblins have staked out.  They've got a ditch around the outside of
their camp, but beyond that, you can see that it's been cleared, that they
would be able to see if something was approaching early, that nothing can
sneak up on them. And you can see that that's a very intentional thing that
they've done. They're pretty tactical and strategical and all that kind of
stuff.  Yeah, and you have a lovely trance and a songbird has a fantastic
sleep. Just, you're all full of goblin food, and as discussings as it tastes
to some people, you made yours taste delicious, and it actually is healthy. It
actually is good food.  It's just, they season it weirdly. Or unfamiliarly.
There are humans who have developed a taste for goblin food and they don't
talk about it a lot because it's misunderstood by the rest of people.  Next
morning. Tunic comes to your tent and says, "You and are in this tent, and he
says, "Well, if you guys are gonna go to the Sword Mountains and explore the
wave of Echo Cave, I think it would be best if I came along with you. I would
feel terrible if something happened to you guys that I could have prevented.
 Is that all right? Yes, more than merri. And Sarah says, "Aw, you're so
sweet."  And... He says, great, and smiles he says, I'll just go get your
other friend. And he scampers off.  And he finds you on the wall and says, I'm
going to be joining you if that's all right, on your trip to the mountains. I
would like to know what? I'm worried about you guys.  It's. There's a lot
between here in the mountains, and the mountains themselves are even more
dangerous, and I know the area. what we can. He kind of gets a little bit
embarrassed and.  It's good. I says, I've actually forgotten. He says, "Well,
I can scout ahead for you.  I'm very good at hiding. And I'm handy with a bow
and a dagger and I'm pretty good at reading a scene and noticing things before
other goblins and and I know a lot about the Is that true? Yes, about the
history of the area and things like that.  Well, right. Oh, you. He's visibly
relieved.  He's bar. Great. We' we'll leave in just a little bit.  We're
meeting at the guest tent. and he scampers off. Gri's like, he was actually
asleep until Sunic came up. And now.pt there with And before he left, Sunic
told Gri what was going on, Gri was visibly sad.  He really likes you. I like.
And he hugs your leg and then runs off.  Can I give him something? Uh, yeah,
actually. Sure.  Can I give him like a little actually, wait, I have a book, I
have my little, like, my notebook and stuff What is it? Hmm. This is it.be
down like what you say.  Yeah, it like takes note of these things that I
learned. Small being, inventory. There's something, yeah, something like
that., I forget things.  Arcane notebook, Co Okay. So Arcane notebook. You
want to like tear off a page and you give it to him?  Tear, that's related to
like, has information. So they can kind of better understand you a little
bit.. And then you can also understand that you're not actually a very pale
goblin.  He wasn't sure, because you've got the pointy ears and you're fierce.
So he was kind of thinking, maybe you're just a really weird goblin, and he
was into that. So, uh.  So when you give that to him and he looks at it and he
looks at you and then he hugs you and then he runs off. All right, and so the
four of you meet at the oh, yes, we're going to make it. Four of you meet at
the tent, finally. and there are two more goblins.  One with a bow, one with a
small sword.. And the Sunic says, "These two ask to come along too." They were
really impressed last night, and they think you're super cool." and they want
to at least see you to the mountain.  Mostly they just want to hang out with
you. If that's all right. Yeah.  I would take a sport to the base of the
mountain. Yeah. Yeah.  There's w. Yeah, there's. Vulture, wolves and boars
There's more than that out there, too.  Yeah. They'll tend to ignore parties
of that size, too, if there's six creatures in a group, they'll stay away. So,
yeah, you set off the six of you heading towards the mountains.  You can see
them in plain sight. They're to the right of the dense forest. It takes all
day to get there.  It's You cross that road that goes east west, nothing going
on the road. It's just, it's traveled like there's maybe a few people a day
going back and forth on that road. And you start going over some hills.  I
need a bigger version of this map, but I don't worry about that later. There's
like. moundish things that are maybe 100 feet tall, and you're just weaving
your way through them and the two warriors who accompanied you are like asking
you questions, asking, like, about your adventures, about basically your
backstory. They're just really curious.  And Yeah, is there anything.. Oh, I
forgot about the. Sorry, I forgot to give you trumpet news.  Yeah, I was ask
if I. So night before, after your performance, before you went to bed, Thou
would have come to your tent and said, I've found some information for you.
There are rumors of a trumpet in the cave. There all the information that I
have about the mountains is Spotty, because so much battle has happened and a
lot of time has passed.  The nature of the so called treasure in the mountain
is like any, like a myth that's grown out of proportion. But there's very good
reason to believe that there is a special anvil in there and it's possible
that anvil was used to craft items, and there are some who say there was a
magical instrument amongst those items that was still there. There was a
barred, some time ago, who went to the mountains and didn't come back.  So
that's another reason to think maybe there'd be something like that in there.
assumed. It's possible that he ran away and just didn't tell anybody, but
nobody returned from that trip and a later trip did find one of them
slaughtered.. Yeah, so something to go on.  Yeah, and she says,. There's also,
it's not quiet up there. There's things going on.  We don't have good
information because we try to stay away because it's dangerous. But something
is up there and it's, well, as I'm sure you've heard in town, it makes noise.
The mountains are making noises.  That's why we call it Thunder Mountain. So.
Tread carefully.  And you're welcome. And, uh, yeah, and to Thunik. Thunik, my
boy.  Don't take any chances. He says, "Gass Master. Um, and then she ambbles
off.  And then the next morning, all that stuff I said happens, and, um and
yeah, the ones are going with you, they don't know anything about that stuff,
but they have heard all kinds of stories about what's going on in the
mountains, and none of them sound likely. But who knows? you get to the
beginnings of the mountains, and you escort are not tired, and you guys aren't
either, but, you know, you've been around. and they say, "We'll just, we'll
just escort you until you're about to go inside.  And the other one's like,
yeah, yeah, that's what we'll do. And soonick's like, uh huh, okay, fine. And
so you guys start climbing the mountain. climbing, climbing, Switchbacks, a
little bit of climbing with ropes.  Actually, I should even make you guys roll
to see if you. Oh, and you're fully healed now, too, because you have long
rests. You're fully healed, and you've got all your spell slots back.  That's
what happens when you get a long rest. And you had, you rested so well. Yeah,
he's a good kid.  And, let's see.? Yes, when you level up, it does. Which,
yes.  So, right. For this, you're going to roll. We're going to call this
survival as well.  Because. So, yeah, you're going to roll survival. Good.
 19. I'm You're fine. Go. This.  Oh, one time like die. What's your bonus? Oh,
okay.  You're gonna have a slight mishap. Let's see, the situation is the six
of you are ascending a God, forgotten my rock climbing terms of what the
difficulties are, but this is the kind of thing that it's like a rock gym, and
it shouldn't be that hard, but, I don't know, something you put your hand in
the wrong place or something, and you do that thing where you go, but since
you've got the rope, you just stop. Okay.  And so you're beat up a little bit,
you take one hiipoton damage... Your goblin escort. What's that?  So you're
down to eight. Serafina says, do you want me to. help you with that? And she
reaches and pulls out, like, a medicine kit type thing and offers to heal you
up.  Oh, okay. And then. is healing me on the mountain. And she.  No. I need
to look at the.. So am I heel then?  Uh, Hold on. I got to make sure she
doesn't mess it up. Okay.  Where's my D20? There it is. Oh, I didn't use...
 What? You guys haven't had a critical role yet, like a really important thing
to roll for. we fall off this, yeah, she heals you, but it's not great. It's
the bandage is, you're going to have to like..  One hit white? It heal the one
hit point, yeah. But you get the feeling that if she had done it any worse,
she might have hurt you.  Maybe that's worse still on the. It's a little bit
windy. Yeah, it's harder.  There's a lot of distractions. There's lot going
on. It's windy, it's steep, it's a little bit scary.  Yeah. I'll wait till she
gets back. Did he go back?  He did, yeah. He said since you were ago, he'd go.
So we're rock climbing, right?  You are. You're actually rock climbing, and
you're doing great, except for when he fell. Yeah.  Let me see, what other
things do you guys need to do? Oh, I need to look at. Oh, yeah, and you guys
are trying to be stealthy, I believe.  That is Tic insists that you all try to
be as quiet as possible. Understanding that not everyone is as accomplished as
he. So next I'm gonna have you both roll stealth, just to make sure you're.
 Shop. You're not the only one. You gain benefits from being with Tic.  He's
not just good at stealthing. He's good at helping other people's stealth. All
right.  Four total. Okay. I'll make a note of that.  Yep...y. Okay, uh, yeah,
so Cunic when you get to a level piece of a mountain, he says,All right, let
me let me check my notes here, and he pulls out the scrap of paper and he
says, oh, we're almost there. Okay, great.  It's just around that way over
there is the opening that we think goes in. And so he he he says hold on, I'll
look and he sneaks ahead. And not too far open.  And then he sneaks back and
he says, "Oh, I got to roll his perception too." Oh, okay. It looks good.  It
looks like, nothing's going on there right now. And you agree, you don't hear
anything. And so you the six of you go around this corner and you reach a sort
of opening, but looking around.  I'm going to have you guys roll perception
again.. Two. That would be a five..  Does it go over 20 or. Oh, yeah, it does
go over 20, sorry. Okay, so 17 plus 5.  Oh, 22, all right. So, you are the
only one to make note of how fresh the, uh the dirt is disturbed in the
opening of the cave. And not only that, but it looks like tracks rather than
just, like, random..  There's also some feathers that look like they all came
off at once in one spot where there's a lot of tracks and there's also a sort
of mound like you get with gophers when they go in and they leave dirt behind
them. And, and you also hear here you hear a noise like like hoot growl.. And
it is an owl there. which won't stand up...  And that is your cliffhanger. I
almost made it a literal cliffhanger when you slipped, but I decided this is
much more exciting. Really?  You're gonna fight that next week. You're gonna
fight that next week unless you come up with some other way to get around it.
No.  And. And you're also going to level up. You guys are going to be level
two next Sunday.  Before we fight it? Yeah. Yeah, you're gonna level up before
you fight it..  And I'm going to leave the box of doom here with you guys.
Actually if it's all right with you, I'll leave a bunch of this stuff here, I
don't Awesome. and then. Oh, sweet there.  Okay, that is session. We still
have another 40 minutes left because I didn't pace it quite the way I wanted
to, but it's been a mile. It's been years since I did this, so I don't feel
bad about it.  It's been, Holy cow, it's been, I want to say, six years now,
since the last time I ran anything, and that wasn't even D&D? Oh. In fact,
this is my first time running D&D. I usually was running Pathfinder, which is
an offshoot of D&D from a while back.  So now at this point in the session,
what they call on one of the podcasts I listened to, roses and thorns, What'
you like? What could have gone better? What are you excited about that's buds?
 What are you looking forward to? Yeah. And this is all recorded, so I'll get
to analyze it more deeply when I get home.  I like. I definitely like
theinger. Yes.  Yeah,' Well, you'll also get Jack's what he says to the
students months after this adventure, 'cause somehow, whether Serfina survives
or not, somehow the story of all of the things that are going on is going to
get back to him. yeah. I think Serafina has to survive because he said that
she calls it why she brings health potions with her. So I guess she's got
Hero's advantage, but we won't worry about that right now.  It didn't occur to
me that that could be a meta gaming issue, but it's all right. And the reason
to, again, speak from behind the screen, the reason that Seraphina and Sunic
are with you is because it's really hard for two people to go up against
anything without somebody dying. Yeah.  It's.. Yeah. It's. few balls. went
down..  Yeah.. But you guys did great. forward. I mean, you do what you want,
but I'll beat you.  You be smallaldine. Yeah, It's Do whatever you want. What
a small bean would do.  You're a. It was a bundle of chaos or something.
Chaot?  Yeah, you are. Well, you get the initiative higher, then you can just
outright attack if you want to, right? Instead of.  Yeah, you could, I hit it
with magic missile. Magic missiles And so far, you only see one enemy, so you
can focus all your fire on the one. There's lore about.  Let me see what
Albert's. You guys seem to have pretty good. I have any right now is just like
a curve, so I don't really know what I would you have.  Nice. Yeah. You know?
 Anything you wish you'd done differently? Probably not, no. I was both the
battle, but also the other like role flame part of it.  Because if it's just
all battle then you really see the character develop more in the non-b stuff.
Absolutely. was eating dinner with the goblins and having our little like
character development in. Yeah. the dinner.  I thought you, it was smart that
you said that for seeing how they take the actions that we do. Because I think
we just like assume, but we don't know with another species or. You know, race
of whatever, how, like, what if me speaking goblin didn't impress them, you
know?  And it could have gone different ways. Yeah, for sure. Trying to like
rolling.  I think that would be something that, yeah, like in the non-best
stuff, like scene, we're trying different different things to see how it it
turns out, and then you just will hear fine. I pictured the oven burger you
can't start it, and it's just like, click, tick tick.of. Yeah.  My thorn is, I
wish I had handled the pacing a little better. I feel like I rushed you guys,
and you didn't get to really experience the town, and you didn't get to..
Like, you didn't get as much of the flavor as I'd wanted to give you, but it
turns out that I did pretty well because there's only, at the moment, I was
six minutes left to the time I would have had to cut off..  So I didn't feel
rough. Good at all. Good.  I was probably the good taste, like maybe a little
bit. Also, I don't know. then you go into details and I like, oh yeah, those
are good details to have. So, know.  Yeah, I definitely did feel a rush. I was
probably ranked there and then any delay was probably us figuring out, like,
because we haven't done it. The more we do it.  Well, me too. I was delaying..
Yeah, I don't think that I think with that delay that will probably, I don't
know if it was.  Awesome. was fine. It was funny. It was funny because when we
the Boars, I thought, okay, well we'll fight the Boars.  We'll probably make
it to the town, that's it. And there was like two other group things. And I
was like, oh, this is this is a legit battle.  It's not just two more. We have
the wolves. Now we have a vulture.  Technically, we even really fight fight
the vulture, we just. I was just been waiting to scare something off. And I
was like, I'll do it for this one.  I got wait. I'll do it for this one and
then finally on the last one. I just watched a YouTube video of a woman who
was running. so she felt like she didn't, wasn't mean enough to her players.
 She didn't give them enough chances to die. And so she practiced on her
parents because she knew her parents would be forgiving and stuff. And she
prepped them and said, I'm going to kill your characters."  I says, "For my
sake, I need to get better at this. And then she totally caved and was nice to
them. But one of the things that she had as a lesson learned was to make
scalable battles.  So I specifically came up with that to be where the battle
could change course depending on how you did. And you guys almost destroyed
all of my content. I didn't mean for you to even see the vulture, but you kept
besting everything, and I realized I I didn't give you enough credit. one
another b the other.  If you had the damage. No, didn't. I didn't get to my
damage.  Yeah, but that's a bar for you. Bard don't do damage.? They're what
we call the controller.  So, you know, there's damage per second. There's
tank. There's a controller and there's an area of effect.  Those are the four
different, like in World War craft or something like that. It's that. And the
same thing exists in turn-based games, even though the damage per second
doesn't make sense in.  But damage per turn. Yeah. And you guys have...  AOE,
I think, and control. And you don't have a tank between the two of you, you
don't have a tank and you don't have DPS. Tunik is he's a rogue, so he is he
is damage if things go his way..  He'll do huge damage if he can backstab. And
amazingly, Sfine is your tank. She has a huge constitution, and she's actually
a paladin..  She's just not a paladin for a church. That's where the layon
Hands comes from. So she's the one who's going to go up to the owl bear and
say, no, you can't.  I won't let you.. I bonged that boar, and it did not get
up again. How many hip points an Albert have?  Holy cow. Ooh. It's a good
thing, too, that you have two more goblins with you who are warriors, because
this fight would actually this fight's actually too big for level two.  But I
was just really excited about the idea of owl bears are some of my favorite
monsters. They're just so cool. Hoot growl, motherfuckers?  Yeah.. ackins..
only give a beep Rick.. What if it's nice? You never know.  Yeah, that's nice.
Is it nice? Can we bring it with us?  Can I write it?ain it. Owl bears are
having an intelligence of.  Let me take a look at Al bears. Oh, I shouldn't
tell you any of this stuff. You should have to find it out in Oakley.  I'
bigger. What is their size? I think their size large, which means make a
bigger version and then cast the thing that makes it smell like that thing.
 Or the owl so is lit. Oh, yeah. You totally do that..  Trying to find. Ooh,
that one's an gnarly. Should be glad you're not facing a primeval ollair.
 Um.. B plus two. It is pretty crazy.  It's Gun features.. Oh, shit, that's
right. I forgot about Ald their eggs.  I don't. Eggs, yeah. I don't think
this.  I want to eat eggs. I've heard they're delicious.. Oh my God.  You
could do that. The bard in thel there, and then The bard in the owl. That
sounds like a p.  I to do an instrument and then That's a great idea for a
name of a pub. Yeah. I've been drinking down at the bar now there..  Well,
this has been fantastic for me. I greatly enjoy. You guys are very well
engaged, very aware and engaged.  Aw. Thank you. Um do that for work. you not
my resume. right next weekend.  And since now, like got a good idea of what
we're doing. W animals. I' that.  I bet that owl bear.. Yeah, this is fun,
Robert. Yay!  I'm so glad. I Martha was stunned at how much I'm taking this
seriously. She said, "You're taking this very seriously."  And I said, "Of
course!" Yeah, was great. It was nice having the The battle mat.  Yeah, you
can kind of. Well, hopefully next week, I'll have better stuff to stick on it.
I'm thinking about buying a projector, like USB cool.  Because there's an appa
I can use the whole, like, keep track of her tokens and everything. Yeah.
That's cool.  It's pretty great. And it's like, oh, I've got cl. No.  Listen.
beloweless? Can you do you do they ever do it where if you want to cast
something that you don't want other people to know and you just tell you, man
you just say the results of that? Yes.  Okay. Yes. That is easier to do with
the computer, but if you wanted to text me, I want to do a thing.  Yeah. I can
roll for you, or you can roll and tell me what you rolled. I'm not worried
about anybody cheating this spot.  It's not that kind of a game. No. Well,
some people will lie about their roles and stuff.  They'll be like, I rolled a
natural 20, which is the best you can do. That's so lame. Some people play it
I absolutely agree.  I 100% agree. It's like cabinets. Yeah, these are pretty
expensive a.  And they have magnets in them to make them stick together, which
I love. This is so fun. Yay!  Um, I'm still recording, too, in case you guys
say anything I need to be aware of. Yeah. Let's.  R. Enough. Josh, kid.
 There's not for dinner. There's an o b.. You guys have no chance against Al
there.  Yeah, no. button. They'r back. See?  I scratch.. It's a good policy.
All.s.  Yeah. Oh, yeah. We'll need two more of those to go in the battle with
you.  Of course. There's those, and those are there. And I'll leave my fancy
dice if you guys too, they're probably safer here than with me.  And that's
some garbage and some dice and some magnet things. I don. Well, I'm just going
to go ahead and reveal this because it is a box that cannot be unopened.
 You're gonna want to see this, Kyle.. Oh, I'll wait till he gets back. Get my
fancy D20 out for this.  You're gonna want to see this, Kyle. All right,
let's. No rush..  So, when I have to roll something or actually, when you guys
have to roll something that is pivotal, where the results could change
everything. really important role gets made in the boxy doom. Oh, my gosh. I
love it.  What would be an example from, like, another thing of a c? Like a
life or death? Yeah.  So, if you were let's say you're in the wayo Caves and
you reach some sort of like auditorium is area and there's a bunch of
something down below that you don't want to get the attention of. Your stealth
rolls would be with this, because that will change everything. If you can get
through without them noticing.  No problem. But if they notice, it's going to
be a problem. That would be a box of dummeral.  Also, Death Staves. Okay. If
you're down below, one hit point, you roll Death saves.  If you roll three
above 10 or 10 or above, if you roll 3 10 or above, before you roll 3, 9, or
below, then you're okay. You stabilize, you're still down, still unconscious.
Okay.  But.. Maybe I shouldn't have gotten this out. That was a lot of
rolling.  I was. Aw. So, yeah, look forward to a really big, crucial, sort of
situation in which either I or you will roll in the box.  Oh, yeah, like, if
you're already down and a bad guy just has to hit you to kill you completely,
I rolled that in the box with him to see if I hit your AC of being down, which
you can actually have your AC go up from being down if they're far enough
away, so. Now, if you there and the, is that.. If you die, you die.  You're
dead. I think it's more fun that way. I will try to.. campaign then?  Well,
you'd roll a new character up. You'd create a new character. You'd do what we
did last weekend again..  You like you goblin that hears a commotion?
Exactly.. You could come through as a goblin or..  Can you play as a character
that you? Absolutely. Oh, yeah.  You could be great. You could be Thool. You
could be somebody from town.  Or you can make up another character. And I
would find a way to work the character in. Oh, shit, I'm going to make note of
that one.  I bet Greg did do that. I'm gonna make him stealthy. down off the
sounds like Before we start finding.. That's a great idea.  We'll call that a
bud. What's gonna happen with Greg? Yeah.  No. That's not fun this year. It's
really not. is the voice of the owl.  That's funny. Um, all right, that's all
I've got. Let's see, do I want to eat here or somewhere else?  leftover
burger. I'm not any bigger in the leftovers really. You knew that.  I knew you
knew that. I I'm gonna eat on the way home, I think. Fresh leftovers.. 
